Da Capo
Da Capo. [Ital.] A term in musick, which signifying from the head or the beginning, means that the first part of the tune should be repeated at the conclusion.

Dab (noun)
A Dab. n.s. [from the verb.]

 A small lump of any thing.

 A blow with something moist or soft.

 Something moist or slimy thrown upon one.

 [In low language.] An artist; a man expert at something. This is not used in writing.

 A kind of small flat fish.
Of flat fish there are rays, flowks, dabs, plaice. Carew.

Dab (verb)
To Dab. v.a. [dauber, Fr.] To strike gently with something soft or moist.
A sore should never be wiped by drawing a piece of tow or rag over it, but only by dabbing it with fine lint. Sharp.

Dab-chick
Dab-chick. n.s. A chicken newly hatched; a chicken with its feathers not yet grown.
A dab-chick waddles through the copse,On feet and wings, and flies, and wades, and hops. Pope.

Dabble (verb active)
To Da'bble. v.a. [dabbelen, Dutch.] To smear; to daub; to spatter; to besprinkle; to wet.
                              Then came byA shadow like an angel, with bright hairDabbled in blood. Shakespeare's Richard III.
I scarified, and dabbled the wound with oil of turpentine. Wiseman's Surgery.
Mean while the South, rising with dabbled wings,A sable cloud athwart the welkin flings. Swift.

Dabble (verb neuter)
To Da'bble. v.n.

 To play in water; to move in water or mud.
Neither will a spirit, that dwells with stars, dabble in this impurer mud. Glanville's Apology.
The little one complained of her legs, that she could neither swim nor dabble with them. L'Estrange.
But when he found the boys at play,And saw them dabbling in their clay,He stood behind a stall to lurk,And mark the progress of their work. Swift.
 To do any thing in a slight, superficial, or shallow manner; to tamper.
Shakespeare shall bear it company, and be put into your hands, as clear and as fair as it came out of them; though you, I think, have been dabbling here and there with the text, I have had more reverence for the writer, and the printer, and left every thing standing just as I found it. Pope.

Dabbler
Da'bbler. n.s. [from dabble.]

 One that plays in water.

 One that meddles without mastery; one that never goes to the bottom of an affair; a superficial meddler.
He dares not complain of the tooth-ach, lest our dabblers in politicks should be ready to swear against him for disaffection. Swift's Intelligencer, № 19.

Dace
Dace. n.s. [of uncertain derivation: in most provinces called dare.] A small river fish, resembling a roach, but less.
Let me live harmlessly, and near a brinkOf Trent or Avon have a dwelling-place;Where I may see my quill or cork down sink,With eager bite of pearch, or bleak, or dace. Walton's Angl.

Dactyle
Da'ctyle. n.s. [δάκτυλος, a finger.] A poetical foot consisting of one long syllable and two short, like the joints of a finger; as candidus.

Dad
Dad. n.s. [The child's way of expressing father.  It is remarkable, that, in all parts of the world, the word for father, as first taught to children, is compounded of a and t, or the kindred letter d differently placed; as tad, Welsh; ἄττα, Greek; atta, Gothick; tata, Latin. Mammas atque tatas habet Afra, Mart.] Father.
      I was never so bethumpt with words,Since first I call'd my brother's father dad. Shakesp. K. John.
His loving mother left him to my care;Fine child, as like his dad as he could stare! Gay.

Daddy
Da'ddy. n.s. [The child's way of expressing father.  It is remarkable, that, in all parts of the world, the word for father, as first taught to children, is compounded of a and t, or the kindred letter d differently placed; as tad, Welsh; ἄττα, Greek; atta, Gothick; tata, Latin. Mammas atque tatas habet Afra, Mart.] Father.
      I was never so bethumpt with words,Since first I call'd my brother's father dad. Shakesp. K. John.
His loving mother left him to my care;Fine child, as like his dad as he could stare! Gay.

Daedal
Dæ'dal. adj. [dædalus, Lat.]

 Various; variegated.

 Skilful: this is not the true meaning, nor should be imitated.
                    Nor hathThe dædal hand of nature only pour'dHer gifts of outward grace. Philips.

Daffodil
Da'ffodil.Daffodi'lly.Daffodowndi'lly.

n.s. [Supposed by Skinner to be corrupted from asphodelus.]


This plant hath a lily-flower, consisting of one leaf, which is bell-shaped, and cut into six segments, which incircle its middle like a crown; but the empalement, which commonly rises out of a membranous vagina, turns to an oblong or roundish fruit, which is triangular, and gapes in three parts; is divided into three cells, and full of roundish seeds. Miller.
Strew me the green ground with daffodowndillies,And cowslips, and kingcups, and loved lilies. Spenser.
Bid Amaranthus all his beauty shed,And daffodillies fill their cups with tears,To strew the laureate herse where Lycid lies. Milton.
The daughters of the flood have search'd the meadFor violets pale, and cropp'd the poppy's head:The short narcissus, and fair daffodil,Pancies to please the sight, and cassia sweet to smell. Dryden.

Daffodilly
Da'ffodil.Daffodi'lly.Daffodowndi'lly.

n.s. [Supposed by Skinner to be corrupted from asphodelus.]


This plant hath a lily-flower, consisting of one leaf, which is bell-shaped, and cut into six segments, which incircle its middle like a crown; but the empalement, which commonly rises out of a membranous vagina, turns to an oblong or roundish fruit, which is triangular, and gapes in three parts; is divided into three cells, and full of roundish seeds. Miller.
Strew me the green ground with daffodowndillies,And cowslips, and kingcups, and loved lilies. Spenser.
Bid Amaranthus all his beauty shed,And daffodillies fill their cups with tears,To strew the laureate herse where Lycid lies. Milton.
The daughters of the flood have search'd the meadFor violets pale, and cropp'd the poppy's head:The short narcissus, and fair daffodil,Pancies to please the sight, and cassia sweet to smell. Dryden.

Daffodowndilly
Da'ffodil.Daffodi'lly.Daffodowndi'lly.

n.s. [Supposed by Skinner to be corrupted from asphodelus.]


This plant hath a lily-flower, consisting of one leaf, which is bell-shaped, and cut into six segments, which incircle its middle like a crown; but the empalement, which commonly rises out of a membranous vagina, turns to an oblong or roundish fruit, which is triangular, and gapes in three parts; is divided into three cells, and full of roundish seeds. Miller.
Strew me the green ground with daffodowndillies,And cowslips, and kingcups, and loved lilies. Spenser.
Bid Amaranthus all his beauty shed,And daffodillies fill their cups with tears,To strew the laureate herse where Lycid lies. Milton.
The daughters of the flood have search'd the meadFor violets pale, and cropp'd the poppy's head:The short narcissus, and fair daffodil,Pancies to please the sight, and cassia sweet to smell. Dryden.

Daft
To Daft. v.a. [contracted from do aft; that is, to throw back, to throw off.] To toss aside; to put away with contempt; to throw away slightly.
            Where is his son,The nimble-footed mad-cap prince of Wales,And his comrades, that daft the world aside,And bid it pass? Shakespeare's Henry IV. p. i.
I would she had bestow'd this dotage on me: I would have dafft all other respects, and made her half myself. Shakesp.

Dag (noun)
Dag. n.s. [dague, French.]

 A dagger.

 A handgun; a pistol: so called from serving the purposes of a dagger, being carried secretly, and doing mischief suddenly.

Dag (verb)
To Dag. v.a. [from daggle.] To daggle; to bemire; to let fall in the water: a low word.

Dagger
Da'gger. n.s. [dague, French.]

 A short sword; a poniard.
She ran to her son's dagger, and struck herself a mortal wound. Sidney, b. ii.
This sword a dagger had his page,That was but little for his age;And therefore waited on him so,As dwarfs upon knights errant do. Hudibras, p. i. cant. I.
He strikes himself with his dagger; but being interrupted by one of his friends, he stabs him, and breaks the dagger on one of his ribs. Addison on Italy.
 [In fencing schools.] A blunt blade of iron with a basket hilt, used for defence.

 [With printers.] The obelus; a mark of reference in form of a dagger; as [†].

Daggersdrawing
Da'ggersdrawing. n.s. [dagger and draw.] The act of drawing daggers; approach to open violence.
They always are at daggersdrawing,And one another clapperclawing. Hudibras, p. ii. cant. 2.
I have heard of a quarrel in a tavern, where all where at daggersdrawing, 'till one desired to know the subject of the quarrel. Swift.

Daggle (verb active)
To Da'ggle. v.a. [from dag, dew; a word, according to Mr. Lye, derived from the Danish; according to Skinner, from ꝺaᵹ, sprinkled, or ꝺaᵹan, to dip. They are probably all of the same root.]  To dip negligently in mire or water; to bemire; to besprinkle.

Daggle (verb neuter)
To Da'ggle. v.n. To be in the mire; to run through wet or dirt.
Nor like a puppy, daggled through the town,To fetch and carry sing-song up and down. Pope's Epistles.

Daggledtail
Da'ggledtail. n.s. [daggle and tail.] Bemired; dipped in the water or mud; bespattered.
The gentlemen of wit and pleasure are apt to be choaked at the sight of so many daggledtail parsons, that happen to fall in their way. Swift.

Daily (adjective)
Da'ily. adj. [ꝺaᵹlı, Saxon.] Happening every day, or very frequently; done every day; quotidian.
                Much are we bound to heavenIn daily thanks, that gave us such a prince. Shak. H. VIII.
Cease, man of woman born! to hope reliefFrom daily trouble, and continu'd grief. Prior.

Daily (adverb)
Da'ily. adv. Every day; very often.
Let that man with better sense advise,That of the world least part to us is read;And daily how through hardy enterprize,Many great regions are discovered. Fairy Queen, b. ii.
I was ambitious to be acquainted with a man, with whom I conversed almost daily, for years together. Dryd. Virg. Ded.

Daintily
Da'intily. adv. [from dainty.]

 Elegantly; delicately.
This same truth is a naked and open day-light, that doth not shew the masks and mummeries, and triumphs of the world, half so stately and daintily as candle-light. Bacon.
 Deliciously; pleasantly.
There is no region of earth so daintily watered, with such great navigable rivers. Howel's Vocal Forest.
Those young suiters had been accustomed to nothing but to sleep well, and fare daintily. Broom's View of Epick Poems.

Daintiness
Da'intiness. n.s. [from dainty.]

 Delicacy; softness.
What should yet thy palate please?Daintiness and softer ease,Sleeked limbs, and finest blood? Ben. Johnson's Forest.
 Elegance; nicety.
The duke exceeded in the daintiness of his leg and foot, and the earl in the fine shape of his hands. Wotton.
 Squeamishness; fastidiousness.
Of sand, and lime, and clay, Vitruvius hath discoursed without any daintiness. Wotton's Architecture.

Dainty (adjective)
Da'inty. adj. [derived by Skinner from dain, an old French word for delicate; which yet I cannot find in dictionaries.]

 Pleasing to the palate; of exquisite taste; delicious.
They are all over watery; whereas an higher concoction is required for sweetness, or pleasure of taste, and therefore all your dainty plumbs are a little dry. Bacon's Natural History.
 Delicate; of acute sensibility; nice; squeamish; soft; luxurious; tender.
This is the slowest, yet the daintiest sense;For ev'n in the ears of such as have no skill,Perceive a discord, and conceive offence;And knowing not what's good, yet find the ill. Davies.
They were a fine and dainty people; frugal and yet elegant, though not military. Bacon's Holy War.
 Scrupulous; ceremonious.
                    Which of you allWill now deny to dance? She that makes dainty,I'll swear hath corns. Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet.
                    Therefore to horse;And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,But shift away. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 Elegant; tenderly languishingly, or effeminately beautiful.
            My house, within the city,Is richly furnished with plate and gold,Basons and ewers to lave her dainty hands. Shakespeare.
Why should ye be so cruel to yourself,And to those dainty limbs, which nature lentFor gentle usage, and soft delicacy? Milton.
 Nice; affectedly fine: in contempt.
Your dainty speakers have the curse,To plead bad causes down to worse. Prior.

Dainty (noun)
Da'inty. n.s.

 Something nice or delicate; a delicacy; something of exquisite taste.
Be not desirous of his dainties; for they are deceitful meat. Prov. xxiii. 3.
A worm breedeth in meal, of the shape of a large white maggot, which is given as a great dainty to nightingales. Bacon.
She then produc'd her dairy store,And unbought dainties of the poor. Dryden.
The shepherd swains, with sure abundance blest,In the fat flock, and rural dainties, feast. Pope's Odyssey.
 A word of fondness formerly in use.
Why, that's my dainty; I shall miss thee:But yet thou shalt have freedom. Shakespeare's Tempest.
                There is a fortune comingTowards you, dainty, that will take thee thus,And set thee aloft. Ben. Johnson's Catiline.

Dairy
Da'iry. n.s. [from dey, an old word for milk. Mr. Lye.]

 The occupation or art of making various kinds of food from milk.
 Grounds were turned much in England from breeding, either to feeding or dairy; and this advanced the trade of English butter, which will be extremely beaten down, when Ireland  turns to it too. Temple.
 The place where milk is manufactured.
 These beauties will suspect That you have no more worth Than the coarse and country fairy, That doth haunt the hearth or dairy. Ben. Johnson.
 What stores my dairies and my folds contain! A thousand lambs that wander on the plain. Dryden's Virgil.
 She in pens his flocks will fold, And then produce her dairy store. Dryden.
 Pasturage; milk farm; ground where milch cattle are kept.
 Dairies, being well housewived, are exceeding commodious. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
 Children, in dairy countries, do wax more tall than where they feed more upon bread and flesh. Bacon's Natural History.

Dairymaid
Da'irymaid. n.s. [dairy and maid.] The woman servant whose business is to manage the milk.
 The poorest of the sex have still an itch, To know their fortunes, equal to the rich: The dairymaid enquires if she shall take The trusty taylor, and the cook forsake. Dryden's Juvenal.
 Come up quickly, or we shall conclude that thou art in love with one of sir Roger's dairymaids. Addison's Spectator.

Daisy
Da'isy. n.s. [ꝺæᵹꞅaᵹ, day's eye. Chaucer.] A Spring-flower.
It hath a perennial root: the stalks are naked, and never branch out: the cup of the flower is scaly and simple, divided into many segments to the foot-stalk.  The flowers are radiated; and the heads, after the petals are fallen off, resemble obtuse cones. Miller.
 When daisies pied, and violets blue, And lady smocks all over white, And cuckow buds of yellow hue, Do paint the meadows much bedight. Shakespeare.
 Then sing by turns, by turns the muses sing, Now hawthorns blossom, now the daisies spring; Now leaves the trees, and flow'rs adorn the ground: Begin, the vales shall ev'ry note rebound. Pope's Spring.
 This will find thee picking of daisies, or smelling to a lock of hay. Addison's Spectator, № 131.
 Fair-handed Spring unbosoms every grace; The daisy, primrose, violet, darkly blaze. Thomson's Spring.

Dale
Dale. n.s. [dalei, Gothick; dal, Dutch and German.] A low place between hills; a vale; a valley.
 Long tost with storms, and bet with bitter winds, High over hills, and low adown the dale, She wandred many a wood and measur'd many a vale. Fairy Queen, b. i. cant. 7. stanz. 28.
 Before the downfal of the fairy state This dale, a pleasing region, not unblest, This dale possess'd they, and had still possess'd. Tickell.
 He steals along the lonely dale In silent search. Thomson's Spring, l. 220.

Dalliance
Da'lliance. n.s. [from dally.]

 Interchange of caresses; acts of fondness.
 Look thou be true: do not give dalliance Too much the rein: the strongest oaths are straw To th' fire i' th' blood. Shakespeare's Tempest.
 Nor gentle purpose, nor endearing smiles Wanted; nor youthful dalliance, as beseems Fair couple, link'd in happy nuptial league, Alone as they. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. iv. l. 332.
                 I'll head my people; Then think of dalliance when the danger's o'er: My warlike spirits work now another way, And my soul's tun'd to trumpets. Dryden's Don Sebastian.
 Conjugal conversation.
 The giant, self-dismayed with the sound, Where he with his Duessa dalliance found, In haste came rushing forth from inner bow'r. Fairy Queen.
 That, not mystick, where the sapient king Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse. Milt. Par. Lost.
         Since thou claim'st me for thy sire, And my fair son here show'st me, the dear pledge Of dalliance had with thee in heav'n, and joys Then sweet, now sad to mention. Milton's Paradise Lost.
 Delay; procrastination.
 Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain; Both wind and tide stay for this gentleman; And I, to blame, have held him here too long. — — Good lord, you use this dalliance to excuse Your breach of promise. Shakesp. Comedy of Errours.

Dallier
Da'llier. n.s. [from dally.] A trifler; a fondler.
 The daily dalliers with pleasant words, with smiling countenances, and with wagers, purposed to be lost, before they were purposed to be made. Ascham's Schoolmaster.

Dallop
Da'llop. n.s. [of unknown etymology.] A tuft, or clump.
 Of barley the finest and greenest ye find, Leave standing in dallops 'till time ye do bind. Tusser.

Dally (verb active)
To Da'lly. v.a. To put off; to delay; to amuse 'till a proper opportunity.
 He fully set down, after his wonted manner, to perform service; not by the hazard of one set battle, but by dalying off the time with often skirmishes. Knolles's History.

Dally (verb neuter)
To Da'lly. v.n. [dollen, Dutch, to trifle.]

 To trifle; to play the fool; to amuse one's self with idle play; to lose time in trifles.
                 Take up thy master: If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life, With thine, and all that offer to defend him, Stand in assured loss. Shakespeare's King Lear.
 He left his cur, and laying hold Upon his arms, with courage bold Cried out, 'tis now no time to dally, The enemy begin to rally. Hudibras, p. i. cant. 3.
 We have trifled too long already: it is madness to dally any longer, when our souls are at stake. Calamy's Sermons.
 One hundred thousand pounds must be raised; for there is no dallying with hunger. Swift.
 To exchange caresses; to play the wanton; to fondle.
 He is not lolling on a lewd love bed, But on his knees at meditation; Not dallying with a brace of courtezans, But meditating with two deep divines. Shakesp. Rich. III.
 To sport; to play; to frolick.
 She her airie buildeth in the cedar's top, And dallies with the wind, and scorns the sun. Shak. R. III.
 To delay.
 They that would not be reformed by that correction, wherein he dallied with them, shall feel a judgment worthy of God. Wisd. xii. 26.

Damn
To Damn. v.a. [damno, Latin.]

 To doom to eternal torments in a future state.
                    Not in the legionsOf horrid hell, can come a devil more damn'dIn evils to top Macbeth. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
It is most necessary, that the church, by doctrine and decree, do damn and send to hell for ever those facts and opinions. Bacon, Essay 3.
 To procure or cause to be eternally condemned.
That which he continues ignorant of, having done the utmost lying in his power, that he might not be ignorant of it, shall not damn him. South's Sermons.
 To condemn.
            His own impartial thoughtWill damn, and conscience will record the fault. Dryd. Juv.
 To hoot or hiss any publick performance; to explode.
They damn themselves, nor will my muse descendTo clap with such who fools and knaves commend. Dryden.
            For the great dons of wit,Phœbus gives them full privilege aloneTo damn all others, and cry up their own. Dryd. Ind. Emp.
You are so good a critick, that it is the greatest happiness of the modern poets that you do not hear their works; and next, that you are not so arrant a critick as to damn them, like the rest, without hearing. Pope.

Damnable
Da'mnable. adj. [from damn.]

 Deserving damnation; justly doomed to never-ending punishment.
It gives him occasion of labouring with greater earnestness elsewhere, to entangle unwary minds with the snares of his damnable opinion. Hooker, b. 5. sect. 42.
He's a creature unprepar'd, unmeet for death;And, to transport him in the mind he is,Were damnable. Shakespeare's Measure for Measure.
As he does not reckon every schism of a damnable nature, so he is far from closing with the new opinion of those who make it no crime. Swift.
 It is sometimes indecently used in a low and ludicrous sense; odious; pernicious.
Oh thou damnable fellow! did not I pluck thee by the nose for thy speeches? Shakespeare's Measure for Measure.

Dandle
To Dándle. v.a. [dandelen, Dutch.]

 To shake a child on the knee, or in the hands, to please and quiet him.
Then shall ye suck, and shall be born upon her sides, and be dandled upon her knees. Is. lxvi. 12.
Thy little brethren, which, like fairy sprights,Oft skip into our chamber those sweet nights,And, kiss'd and dandl'd on thy father's knee,Were brib'd next day to tell what they did see. Donne.
Courts are but superficial schools to dandle fools. Wotton.
Sporting the lion ramp'd, and in his pawDandled the kid. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. iv. l. 344.
Motion occasions sleep, as we find by the common use of rocking froward children in cradles, or dandling them in their nurses arms. Temple.
 To fondle; to treat like a child.
            Their child shall be advanc'd,And be received for the emp'ror's heir;And let the emperor dandle him for his own. Sh. Tit. Andr.
They have put me in a silk gown, and a gaudy fool's cap; and I am ashamed to be dandled thus, and cannot look in the glass without blushing, to see myself turned into such a little pretty master. Addison's Guardian, № 113.
 To delay; to procrastinate; to protract by trifles.
Captains do so dandle their doings, and dally in the service to them committed, as if they would not have the enemy subdued. Spenser on Ireland.

Dandler
Dándler. n.s. [from dandle.] He that dandles or fondles children.

Dandruff
Dándruff. n.s. [often written dandriff, from tan, the itch, and drof, sordid, filthy.] Scabs in the head; scurf at the roots of the hair.

Danewort
Dánewort. n.s. A species of elder; called also dwarf-elder, or wailwort.

Danger (noun)
Dánger. n.s. [danger, Fr. of uncertain derivation. Skinner derives it from damnum, Menage from angaria, Minshew from δαιος, death, to which Junius seems inclined.] Risque; hazard; peril.
They that sail on the sea, tell of the danger. Ecclus. xliii. 24.
Our craft is in danger to be set at nought. Acts, x. 27.
I dare pawn down my life for him, that he hath writ this to feel my affection to your honour, and to no other pretence of danger. Shakespeare's King Lear.
More danger now from man alone we find,Than from the rocks, the billows, and the wind. Waller.

Danger (verb)
To Dánger. v.a. [from the noun.] To put in hazard; to endanger.
            Pompey's son stands upFor the main soldier; whose quality going on,The sides o' th' world may danger. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleopat.

Dar
Dar.Dart.

 n.s. A fish found in the Severn. Bailey.

Dart (noun 1)
Dar.Dart.

 n.s. A fish found in the Severn. Bailey.

Dart (noun 2)
Dart. n.s. [dard, French.]

 A missile weapon thrown by hand; a small lance.
 Here one is wounded or slain with a piece of a rock or flint; there another with a dart, arrow, or lance. Peacham.
 O'erwhelm'd with darts, which from afar they fling, The weapons round his hollow temples ring. Dryden's Æn.
 [In poetry.] Any missile weapon.

Daw
Daw. n.s. [supposed by Skinner so named from his note; by Junius to be corrupted from dawl; the German tul, and dol, in the Bavarian dialect, having the same signification.] The name of a bird.
I will wear my heart upon my sleeve,For daws to pick it. Shakespeare's Othello.
If death do quench us quite, we have great wrong,That daws, and trees, and rocks should last so long,When we must in an instant pass to nought. Davies.
The loud daw, his throat displaying, drawsThe whole assembly of his fellow daws. Waller.

Death


Deaurate
To Dea'urate. v.a. [deauro, Latin.] To gild, or cover with gold. Dict.

Deauration
Deaura'tion. n.s. [from deaurate.] The act of gilding.

Debacchation
Debaccha'tion. n.s. [debacchatio, Latin.] A raging; a madness. Dict.

Debarb
To Deba'rb. adj. [from de and barba, Latin.] To deprive of his beard. Dict.

Debt
Debt. n.s. [debitum, Latin; dette, French.]

 That which one man owes to another.
There was one that died greatly in debt; well, says one, if he be gone, then he hath carried five hundred ducats of mine with him into the other world. Bacon, Apophth. 141.
The debt of ten thousand talents, which the servant owed the king, was no slight ordinary sum. Duppa's Devotions.
To this great loss a sea of tears is due;But the whole debt not to be paid by you. Waller.
Above a thousand pounds in debt,Takes horse, and in a might fretRides day and night. Swift.
 That which any one is obliged to do or suffer.
Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt;He only liv'd but 'till he was a man,But like a man he died. Shakespeare's Macbeth.

Debtor
De'btor. n.s. [debitor, Latin.]

 He that owes something to another.
 I am debtor both to the Greeks and to the Barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. Ro. i. 14.
 The case of debtors in Rome, for the first four centuries, was, after the set time for payment, no choice but either to pay, or be the creditor's slave. Swift.
 One that owes money.
 I'll bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully rest debtor for the first. Shak. Merch. of Ven.
                             If he has his ample palm Should hap'ly on ill-fated shoulder lay Of debtor, strait his body, to the touch Obsequious, as whilom knights were wont, To some enchanted castle is convey'd. Philips.
 There dy'd my father, no man's debtor; And there I'll die, nor worse, nor better. Pope's Horace.
 One side of an account-book.
 When I look upon the debtor side, I find such innumerable articles, that I want arithmetick to cast them up; but when I look upon the creditor side, I find little more than blank paper. Addison's Spectator, №. 549.

Debullition
Debulli'tion. n.s. [debullitio, Lat.] A bubbling or seething over. Dict.

Decacuminated
Decacu'minated. adj. [decacuminatus, Latin.] Having the top cut off. Dict.

Decade
De'cade. n.s. [δέκα, Gr. decas, Latin.] The sum of ten; a number containing ten.
 Men were not only out in the number of some days, the latitude of a few years, but might be wide by whole olympiads, and divers decades of years. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
 We make cycles and periods of years; as decades, centuries, and chiliads, chiefly for the use of computations in history, chronology, and astronomy. Holder on Time.
 All rank'd by ten; whole decades, when they dine, Must want a Trojan slave to pour the wine. Pope's Iliad.

December
Decémber. n.s. [december, Latin.] The last month of the year; but named december, or the tenth month, when the year began in March.
Men are April when they woo, and December when they wed. Shakespeare's As you like it.
          What should we speak of,When we are old as you? When we shall hearThe rain and wind beat dark December. Shakesp. Cymbeline.

Dedecorate
To Dedécorate. v.a. [dedecoro, Latin.] To disgrace; to bring a reproach upon. Dict.

Dedecoration
Dedecorátion. n.s. [from dedecorate.] The act of disgracing; disgrace. Dict.

Deem (noun)


Deem (verb)


Defailance
Defáilance. n.s. [defaillance, French.] Failure; miscarriage: a word not in use.
 The affections were the authors of that unhappy defailance. Glanv. Scaps. c. 2.

Defalcate
To Defálcate. v.a. [from falx falcis, a sickle; defalquer, French.] To cut off; to lop; to take away part of a pension or salary. It is generally used of money.

Defalcation
Defalcátion. n.s. [from defalcate.] Diminution; abatement; excision of any part of a customary allowance.
 The tea table is set forth with its customary bill of fare, and without any defalcation. Addison's Spectator, № 487.

Defalk
To Defálk. v.a. [See DEFALCATE.] To cut off; to lop away.
 What he defalks from some insipid sin, is but to make some other more gustful. Decay of Piety.

Defective
Deféctive. adj. [from defectivus, Latin.]

 Full of defects; imperfect; not sufficient; not adequate to the purpose.
 It subjects them to all the diseases depending upon a defective projectile motion of the blood. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 It will very little help to cure my ignorance, that this is the best of four or five hypotheses proposed, which are all defective. Locke.
 If it renders us perfect in one accomplishment, it generally leaves us defective in another. Addison's Spectator, № 255.
 Faulty; vitious; blameable.
 Our tragedy writers have been notoriously defective in giving proper sentiments to the persons they introduce. Addis.

Defective Nouns
Deféctive or deficient Nouns [in grammar.] Indeclinable nouns, or such as want a number, or some particular case.

Defective Verb
Deféctive Verb [in grammar.] A verb which wants some of its tenses.

Deficient
Defícient. adj. [deficiens, from deficio, Latin.] Failing; wanting; defective; imperfect.
 O woman! best are all things as the will Of God ordain'd them: his creating hand Nothing imperfect or deficient left. Milton's Paradise Lost.
 Figures are either simple or mixed: the simple be either circular or angular; and of circular, either complete, as circles, or deficient, as ovals. Wotton's Architect.
 Neither Virgil nor Homer were deficient in any of the former beauties. Dryden's Fab. Pref.
 Several views, postures, stands, turns, limitations and exceptions, and several other thoughts of the mind, for which we have either none, or very deficient names, are diligently to be studied. Locke.

Deficient Nouns
Defícient Nouns. See Defective Nouns.

Deficient Numbers
Defícient Numbers [in arithmetick] are those numbers whose parts, added together, make less than the integer, whose parts they are. Chambers.

Deficient Verbs
Defícient Verbs. See Defective Verbs.

Defile (noun)
Defíle. n.s. [deffile, Fr. from file, a line of soldiers, which is derived from filum, a thread.] A narrow passage; a long narrow pass; a lane.
There is in Oxford a narrow defile, to use the military term, where the partisans used to encounter. Addis. Spectator.

Defile (verb active)
To Defíle. v.a. [afilan, Sax. from ful, foul.]

To make foul or impure; to make nasty or filthy; to dirty.
There is a thing, Harry, known to many in our land by the name of pitch: this pitch, as ancient writers do report, doth defile. Shakespeare's Henry IV. p. i.
He is justly reckoned among the greatest prelates of this age, however his character may be defiled by mean and dirty hands. Swift's Letter concerning the Sacramental Test.
 To pollute; to make legally or ritually impure.
That which dieth of itself he shall not eat, to defile himself therewith. Lev. xxii. 8.
Neither shall he defile himself for his father. Lev. xxi. 11.
 To corrupt chastity; to violate.
        Ev'ry object his offence revil'd,The husband murder'd, and the wife defil'd. Prior.
 To taint; to corrupt; to vitiate; to make guilty.
Forgetfulness of good turns, defiling of souls, adultery and shameless uncleanness. Wisd. xiv. 26.
God requires rather that we should die than defile ourselves with impieties. Stillingfleet.
Let not any instances of sin defile your requests. Wake.

Defile (verb neuter)
To Defíle. v.n. [deffiler, French.] To march; to go off file by file.

Defilement
Defílement. n.s. [from defile.] The state of being defiled; the act of defiling; nastiness; pollution; corruption; defedation.
                                    Lust,By unchaste looks, loose gestures, and foul talk,Lets in defilement to the inward parts. Milton.
The unchaste are provoked to see their vice exposed, and the chaste cannot rake into such filth without danger of defilement. Spectator, № 286.

Defiler
Defíler. n.s. [from defile.] One that defiles; a corrupter; a violater.
At the last tremendous day I shall hold forth in my arms my much wronged child, and call aloud for vengeance on her defiler. Addison's Guardian, № 128.

Delf
Delf.Delfe.

n.s. [from delwan, Sax. to dig.]



 A mine; a quarry.
 Yet could not such mines, without great pains and charges, if at all, be wrought: the delfs would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machines could suffice to lay and keep them dry. Ray on the Creation.
 Earthen ware; counterfeit China ware, made at Delph.
 Thus barter honour for a piece of delf: No, not for China's wide domain itself. Smart.

Delfe
Delf.Delfe.

n.s. [from delwan, Sax. to dig.]



 A mine; a quarry.
 Yet could not such mines, without great pains and charges, if at all, be wrought: the delfs would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machines could suffice to lay and keep them dry. Ray on the Creation.
 Earthen ware; counterfeit China ware, made at Delph.
 Thus barter honour for a piece of delf: No, not for China's wide domain itself. Smart.

Delicate
De'licate. adj. [delicat, French.]

 Fine; not coarse; consisting of small parts.
 As much blood passeth through the lungs as through all the rest of the body: the circulation is quicker, and heat greater, and their texture is extremely delicate. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 Beautiful; pleasing to the eye.

 Nice; pleasing to the taste; of an agreeable flavour.
 The chusing of a delicate before a more ordinary dish, is to be done as other human actions are, in which there are no degrees and precise natural limits described. Taylour.
 Dainty; desirous of curious meats.

 Choice; select; excellent.

 Polite; gentle of manners.

 Soft; effeminate; unable to bear hardships.
 Witness this army of such mass and charge, Led by a delicate and tender prince. Shakespeare's Hamlet.
 Tender and delicate persons must needs be oft angry, they have so many things to trouble them, which more robust natures have little sense of. Bacon, Essay 58.
 Pure; clear.
 Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed The air is delicate. Shakespeare's Macbeth.

Democracy
Demócracy. n.s. [δημοκρατία.] One of the three forms of government; that in which the sovereign power is neither lodged in one man, nor in the nobles, but in the collective body of the people.
 While many of the servants, by industry and virtue, arrive at riches and esteem, then the nature of the government inclines to a democracy. Temple.
The majority having the whole power of the community, may employ all that power in making laws, and executing those laws; and there the form of the government is a perfect democracy. Locke.

Demonocracy
Demonócracy. n.s. [δαίμων and κρατέω.] The power of the devil. Dict.

Dendrology
Dendrólogy. n.s. [δένδρον and λόγος.] The natural history of trees.

Depauperate
To Depaúperate. v.a. [depaupero, Lat.] To make poor; to impoverish; to consume.
Liming does not depauperate; the ground will last long, and bear large grain. Mortimer's Husbandry.
Great evacuations, which carry off the nutritious humours, depauperate the blood. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Desiderate
To Desíderate. v.a. [desidero, Lat.] To want; to miss; to desire in absence. A word scarcely used.
Eclipses are of wonderful assistance toward the solution of this so desirable and so much desiderated problem. Cheyne.

Dew (noun)
Dew. n.s. [ꝺaƿ, Saxon; daaw, Dutch.] The moisture upon the ground.
Fogs, particularly those which we frequently observe after sun-setting, even in our hottest months, are nothing but a vapour, consisting of water, and of such mineral matter as it meets with in its passage and could well bring up along with it; which vapour was sent up in greater quantity all the foregoing day, than now in the evening: but the sun then being above the horizon, taking it at the surface of the earth, and rapidly mounting it up into the atmosphere, it was not discernible, as now it is; because the sun being now gone off, the vapour stagnates at and near the earth, and saturates the air 'till it is so thick as to be easily visible therein: and when at length the heat there is somewhat further spent, which is usually about the middle of the night, it falls down again in a dew, alighting upon herbs and other vegetables, which it cherishes, cools and refreshes, after the scorching heat of the foregoing day. Woodward's Natural History.
                 Never yet one hour in bed Did I enjoy the golden dew of sleep, But with his tim'rous dreams was still awak'd. Shak. R. III.
 That churchman bears a bounteous mind, indeed; A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us; His dew falls ev'ry where. Shakespeare's Henry VIII.
                     She looks as clear As morning roses newly wash'd with dew. Shakespeare.
 Dews and rain are but the returns of moist vapours condensed. Bacon's Natural History, № 81.
 Now sliding streams the thirsty plants renew, And feed their fibres with reviving dew. Pope.

Dewbesprent
Dewbespre'nt. part. [dew and besprent.] Sprinkled with dew.
 This evening late, by then the chewing flocks, Had ta'en their supper on the savoury herb Of knot-grass dewbesprent, and were in fold, I sat me down to watch upon a bank With ivy canopied, and interwove With flaunting honey-suckle. Milton.

Diaeresis
Diǽresis. n.s. [διαίρεσις.] The separation or disjunction of syllables; as a''er.

Diagram
Díagram. n.s. [διάγραμμα.] A delineation of geometrical figures; a mathematical scheme.
Many a fair precept in poetry is like a seeming demonstration in the mathematicks; very specious in the diagram, but failing in the mechanick operation. Dryden.
Why do not these persons make a diagram of these cogitative lines and angles, and demonstrate their properties of perception and appetite, as plainly as we know the other properties of triangles and circles? Bentley's Sermons.

Dialect
Dialéct. n.s. [διάλεκτος.]

 The subdivision of a language; as the Attic, Doric, Ionic, Æolic dialects.

 Stile; manner of expression.
 When themselves do practise that whereof they write, they change in their dialect; and those words  they shun, as if there were in them some secret sting. Hooker, b. v. s. 22.
 Language; speech.
                         In her youth There is a prone and speechless dialect, Such as moves men. Shakesp. Measure for Measure.
 If the conferring of a kindness did not bind the person, upon whom it was conferred, to the returns of gratitude, why, in the universal dialect of the world, are kindnesses still called obligations? South's Sermons.

Diamond
Diamond. n.s. [diamant, French; adamas, Latin.]
The diamond, the most valuable and hardest of all the gems, is, when pure, perfectly clear and pellucid as the purest water; and is eminently distinguished from all other substances by its vivid splendour, and the brightness of its reflexions. It is extremely various in shape and size, being found in the greatest quantity very small, and the larger ones extremely seldom met with. The largest ever known is that in the possession of the great Mogul, which weighs two hundred and seventy-nine carats, and is computed to be worth seven hundred and seventy-nine thousand two hundred and forty-four pounds. The diamond bears the force of the strongest fires, except the concentrated solar rays, without hurt; and even that infinitely fiercest of all fires does it no injury, unless directed to its weaker parts. It bears a glass-house fire for many days, and, if taken carefully out, and suffered to cool by degrees, is found as bright and beautiful as before; but if taken hastily out, it will sometimes crack, and even split into two or three pieces. The places where we have diamonds are the East Indies and the Brasils; and though they are usually found clear and colourless, yet they are sometimes slightly tinged with the colours of the other gems, by the mixture of some metalline particles. Hill on Fossils.
 This diamond was my mother's: take it, heart; But keep it 'till you woo another wife. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
 Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner; Or, for the diamond, the chain you promised. Shakespeare.
 I see how thine eye would emulate the diamond: thou hast the right arched bent of the brow. Shak. Mer. Wives of Winds.
 The diamond is preferable and vastly superior to all others in lustre and beauty; as also in hardness, which renders it more durable and lasting, and therefore much more valuable, than any other stone. Woodward's Mett. Foss.
 The diamond is by mighty monarchs worn, Fair as the star that ushers in the morn. Blackm. Creation.
 The lively diamond drinks thy purest rays, Collected light, compact. Thomson's Summer, l. 140.

Dictionary
Díctionary. n.s. [dictionarium, Latin.] A book containing the words of any language in alphabetical order, with explanations of their meaning; a lexicon; a vocabulary; a word-book.
Some have delivered the polity of spirits, and left an account that they stand in awe of charms, spells, and conjurations; that they are afraid of letters and characters, notes and dashes, which, set together, do signify nothing; and not only in the dictionary of man, but in the subtler vocabulary of satan. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. i. c. 10.
Is it such a horrible fault to translate simulacra images? I see what a good thing it is to have a good catholick dictionary. Still.
An army, or a parliament, is a collection of men; a dictionary, or nomenclature, is a collection of words. Watts.

Didder
To Dídder. v.a. [diddern, Teut. zittern, Germ.] To quake with cold; to shiver. A provincial word. Skinner.

Dingle
Díngle. n.s. [from den, or din, a hollow, Saxon.] A hollow between hills; a dale.
 I know each lane, and every alley green, Dingle or bushy dell of this wild wood; And every bosky bourn from side to side, My daily walks and ancient neighbourhood. Milton.

Dis
Dis. An inseparable particle used in composition, implying commonly a privative or negative signification of the word to which it is joined; as to arm, to disarm; to join, to disjoin.  It is borrowed from des, used by the French and Spaniards in the sense, as desnouer, to untie; desterrar, to banish; from the Latin de; as struo, to build; destruo, to destroy.

Discretion
Discrétion. n.s. [from discretio, Latin.]

 Prudence; knowledge to govern or direct one's self; skill; wise management.
Nothing then was further thought upon for the manner of governing; but all permitted unto their wisdom and discretion which were to rule. Hooker, b. i. s. 10.
A knife may be taken away from a child, without depriving them of the benefits thereof, which have years and discretion to use it. Hooker, b. iv. s 12.
It is not good that children should know any wickedness: old folks, you know, have discretion, as they say, and know the world. Shakespeare's Merry Wives of Windsor.
All this was order'd by the good discretion Of the right reverend cardinal of York. Shakesp. Hen. VIII.
The pleasure of commanding our passions is to be preferred before any sensual pleasure; because it is the pleasure of wisdom and discretion. Tillotson.
But care in poetry must still be had, It asks discretion, ev'n in running mad. Pope's Eff. On Crit.
There is no talent so useful towards rising in the world, or which puts men more out of the reach of fortune than discretion, a species of lower prudence. Swift.
 Liberty of acting at pleasure; uncontrolled, and unconditional power; as, he surrenders at discretion; that is, without stipulation.

Discretive
Discrétive. adj. [discretus, Latin.]

 [In logick.] Discretive propositions are such wherein various, and seemingly opposite judgements are made, whose variety or distinction is noted by the particles but, tho', yet, &c. as, travellers may change their climate, but not their temper: Job was patient, tho' his grief was great. Watts's Logic.
 [In grammar.] Discretive conjunctions are such as imply opposition; as, not a man but a beast.

Discriminate
To Discríminate. v.a. [discrimino, Latin.]

 To mark with notes of difference; to distinguish by certain tokens from another.
Oysters and cockles and muscles, which move not, have no discriminate sex. Bacon’s Natural History, №. 875.
There are three sorts of it differing in fineness from each other, and discriminated by the natives by three peculiar names. Boyle.
The right hand is discriminated from the left by a natural, necessary, and never to be confounded distinction. South.
Although the features of his countenance be no reason of obedience, yet they may serve to discriminate him from any other person, whom she is not to obey. Stillingfleet.
There may be ways of discriminating the voice; as by acuteness and gravity, the several degrees of rising and falling from one tone or note to another. Holder.
 To select or separate from others.
You owe little less for what you are not, than for what you are, to that discriminating mercy, to which alone you owe your exemption from miseries Boyle.

Discrimination
Discriminátion. n.s. [from discriminatio, Latin.]

 The state of being distinguished from other persons or things.
There is a reverence left to be shewed them on the account of their discrimination from other places, and separation for sacred uses. Stillingfleet's Def. of Disc. On Rom. Idol.
 The act of distinguishing one from another; distinction; difference put.
A satire should expose nothing but what is corrigible, and make a due discrimination between those that are, and those who are not the proper objects of it. Addison's Spectator.
By that prudent discrimination made between the offenders of different degrees, he obliges those whom he has distinguished as objects of mercy. Addison's Freeholder, №. 31.
 The marks of distinction.
Take heed of abetting any factions, or applying any publick discriminations in matters of religion. King Charles.
Letters arise from the first original discriminations of voice, by way of articulation, whereby the ear is able to judge and observe the differences of vocal sounds. Holder’s El. Of Speech.

Discursive
Discúrsive. adj. [discursif, French, from discurro, Latin.]

Moving here and there; roving.
Some noises help sleep; as the blowing of the wind, and the trickling of water: they move a gentle attention, and whatsoever moveth attention, without too much labour, stilleth the natural and discursive motion of the spirits. Bacon's N. Hist.
 Proceeding by regular gradation from premises to consequences; argumentative. This is sometimes, perhaps not improperly, written discursive.
There is a sanctity of soul and body, of more efficacy for the receiving of divine truths, than the greatest pretences to discursive demonstration. More's Divine Dialogues.
There hath been much dispute touching the knowledge of brutes, whether they have a kind of discursive faculty, which some call reason. Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Distain
To Distáin. v.a. [dis and stain.]

 To stain; to tinge with an adventitious colour.
Nor ceas'd his arrows, 'till the shady plainSev'n mighty bodies with their blood distain. Dryd. Virg.
Place on their heads that crown distain'd with gore,Which those dire hands from my slain father tore. Pope.
 To blot; to sully with infamy.
                            He understood,That lady whom I had to me assign'd,Had both distain'd her honourable blood,And eke the faith which she to me did bind. Fairy Queen.
The worthiness of praise distains his worth,If he that's prais'd, himself bring the praise forth. Shakesp.

Distrain (verb active)
To Distra'in. v.a. [from distringo, Latin.] To seize; to lay hold on as an indemnification for a debt.
Here's Beauford, that regards not God nor king,Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use. Shakesp. Hen. VI.

Distrain (verb neuter)
To Distra'in. v.n. To make seizure.
The earl answered, I will not lend money to my superiour, upon whom I cannot distrain for the debt. Camden's Remains.
Blood his rent to have regain'd,Upon the British diadem distrain'd. Marvel.

Distrainer
Distra'iner. n.s. [from distrain.] He that seizes.

Distraint
Distra'int. n.s. [from distrain.] Seizure. Dict.

Distress (noun)
Distre'ss. n.s. [destresse, French.]

 The act of making a legal seizure.

 A compulsion in real actions, by which a man is assured to appear in court, or to pay a debt or duty which he refused. Cow.
When any one was indebted to another, he would first demand his debt; and, if he were not paid, he would straight go and take a distress of his goods and cattle, where he could find them, to the value, which he would keep 'till he were satisfied. Spenser's State of Ireland.
Quoth she, some say the soul's secureAgainst distress and forfeiture. Hudibras, p. iii. cant. 1.
 The thing seized by law.

 Calamity; misery; misfortune.
There can I sit alone, unseen of any,And to the nightingale's complaining notesTune my distresses, and record my woes. Shakespeare.
There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon earth distress of nations, with perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring. Luke xxi. 25.
People in affliction or distress cannot be hated by generous minds. Clarissa.

Distress (verb)
To Distre'ss. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To prosecute by law to a seizure.

 To harrass; to make miserable; to crush with calamity.
Distress not the Moabites, neither contend with them in battle. Deutr. ii. 9.
I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. 2 Sa. i. 26.

Distressful
Distre'ssful. adj. [distress and full.] Miserable; full of trouble; full of misery.
He, with a body fill'd and vacant mind,Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread. Sh. H. V.
I often did beguile her of her tears,When I did speak of some distressful strokeThat my youth suffered. Shakespeare's Othello.
The ewes still folded, with distended thighs,Unmilk'd, lay bleating in distressful cries. Pope's Odyssey.
Distressful and desolating events, which have attended the mistakes of politicians, should be present in their minds. Watts.

Do (verb active)


Doctor (noun)
Dóctor. n.s. [doctor, Latin.]

 One that has taken the highest degree in the faculties of divinity, law, or physick.  In some universities they have doctors of musick.  In its original import it means a man so well versed in his faculty, as to be qualified to teach it.
No woman had it, but a civil doctor,Who did refuse three thousand ducats of me,And begged the ring. Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice.
Then stood there up one in the council, a pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of laws. Acts v. 34.
 A man skilled in any profession.
Then subtle doctors scriptures made their pride,Casuists, like cocks, struck out each other's eyes. Denham.
Each proselyte would vote his doctor best,With absolute exclusion to the rest. Dryd. Hind and Panth.
 A physician; one who undertakes the cure of diseases.
By med'cine life may be prolong'd, yet deathWill seize the doctor too. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
How does your patient, doctor?— Not so sick, my lord,As she is troubl'd with thick coming fancies. Shakesp. Macb.
Children will not take those medicines from the doctor's hand, which they will from a nurse or mother. Gov. of Tongue.
To 'pothecaries let the learn'd prescribe,That men may die without a double bribe:Let them, but under their superiors, kill,When doctors first have sign'd the bloody bill. Dryden.
He that can cure by recreation, and make pleasure the vehicle of health, is a doctor at it in good earnest. Collier.
In truth, nine parts in ten of those who recovered, owed their lives to the strength of nature and a good constitution, while such a one happened to be the doctor. Swift.
 Any able or learned man.
The simplest person, that can but apprehend and speak sense, is as much judge of it as the greatest doctor in the school. Digby of Bodies.

Dodecatemorion
Dodecatemórion. n.s. [δωδεκατημόριον.] The twelfth part.
             'Tis dodecatemorion thus describ'd: Thrice ten degrees, which every sign contains, Let twelve exhaust, that not one part remains; It follows streight, that every twelfth confines Two whole, and one half portion of the signs. Creech.

Doll
Doll. n.s.

 A contraction of Dorothy.

 A little girl's puppet or baby.

Dominator
Dominátor. n.s. [Latin.] The presiding or predominant power or influence.
 Jupiter and Mars are dominators for this North-west part of the world, which maketh the people impatient of servitude, lovers of liberty, martial and courageous. Camden's Remains.

Doodle
Dóodle. n.s. [a cant word, perhaps corrupted from do little, Faineant.] A trifler; an idler.

Door
Door. n.s. [dor, dure, Saxon; dorris, Erse.]

 The gate of a house; that which opens to yield entrance.  Door is used of houses and gates of cities, or publick buildings, except in the licence of poetry.
 All the castle quaked from the ground, And every door of free-will open flew. Fairy Queen, b. i.
                         In the side a door Contriv'd; and of provisions laid in large, For man and beast. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. xi.
 To the same end men sev'ral paths may tread, As many doors into one temple lead. Denham.
 For without rules there can be no art, any more than there can be a house without a door to conduct you in. Dryd. Dufres.
 In familiar language, a house.
 Lay one piece of flesh or fish in the open air, and another of the same kind and bigness within doors. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 Let him doubt whether his cloaths be warm, and so go naked; whether his house be firm, and live without doors. Decay of Piety.
 Martin's office is now the second door in the street, where he will see Parnel. Arbuth.
 Lambs, though they are bred within doors, and never saw the actions of their own species, push at those who approach them with their foreheads. Addison's Spectator, № 121.
 The sultan entered again the peasant's house, and turned the owner out of doors. Addison's Guardian, № 99.
 Entrance; portal.


         The tender blades of grass appear, And buds, that yet the blast of Eurus fear, Stand at the door of life, and doubt to clothe the year.

  Dry.



 Passage; avenue; means of approach.
 The indispensable necessity of sincere obedience, shuts the door against all temptations to carnal security. Hammond.
 Out of Door, or Doors. No more to be found; quite gone; fairly sent away.
 Should he, who was thy lord, command thee now, With a harsh voice and supercilious brow, To servile duties, thou would'st fear no more; The gallows and the whip are out of door. Dryden's Pers.
 His imaginary title of fatherhood is out of doors, and Cain is no prince over his brother. Locke.
 At the Door of any one. Imputable; chargeable upon him.
 In any of which parts, if I have failed, the fault lies wholly at my door. Dryden's Dufresnoy, Preface.
 Next Door to. Approaching to; near to; bordering upon.
 A seditious word leads to a broil, and a riot unpunished is but next door to a tumult. L'Estrange.

Dove
Dove. n.s. [duvo, old Teutonick; taub, daub, German.]

 A wild pigeon.
 So shews a snowy dove trooping with crows, As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows. Sh. Rom. and Juliet.
 Say, will the falcon, stooping from above, Smit with her varying plumage, spare the dove? Pope.
 Not half so swift the trembling doves can fly, When the fierce eagle cleaves the liquid sky;Not half so swiftly the fierce eagle moves, When through the skies he drives the trembling doves. Pope.
 A pigeon.
 I have here a dish of doves, that I will bestow upon your worship. Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice.

Down (adverb)
Down. adv.

 On the ground; from the height at which anything was to a lower situation.
 Whom they hit, none on their feet might stand, Though standing else as rocks; but down they fell By thousands. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. vi. l. 593.


 Down sinks the giant with a thund'ring sound, His pond'rous limbs oppress the trembling ground; Blood, brains, and foam, gush from the gaping wound.

  Dr.


 Tending towards the ground.

 Out of sight; below the horizon.
                      How goes the night, boy? —The moon is down; i have not heard the clock, And she goes down at twelve. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 To a total maceration.
 What remains of the subject, after the decoction, is continued to be boiled down, with the addition of fresh water, to a sapid fat. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 Into disgrace; into declining reputation.
 He shar'd our dividend o' th' crown, We had so painfully preach'd down; And forc'd us, though against the grain, T' have calls to teach it up again. Hudibras, p. iii. cant 2.
 It has been still preached up, but acted down; and dealt with, as the eagle in the fable did with the oyster, carrying it up on high, that, by letting it fall, he might dash it in pieces. South's Sermons.
 There is not a more melancholy object in the learned world, than a man who has written himself down. Addison.
 [Answering to up.] Here and there.
  Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied. Ps. lix. 15.

Draw (verb active)
To Draw. v.a. pret. drew; part. pass. drawn. [draʒan, Saxon.]

 To pull along; not to carry.
Then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river. 2 Sa. xvii. 13.
 To pull forcibly; to pluck.
He could not draw the dagger out of his belly. Judg. ii. 22.
The arrow is now drawn to the head. Atterbury.
 To bring by violence; to drag.
Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment-seats? Ja. ii. 6.
 To raise out of a deep place.
They drew up Jeremiah with cords, and took him up out of the dungeon. Jer. xxxviii. 13.
Draw the water for the siege. Nath. iii. 14.
 To suck.
He hath drawn thee dry. Ecclus. xiii. 7.
There was no war, no dearth, no stop of trade or commerce; it was only the crown which had sucked too hard, and now being full, upon the head of a young king, was like to draw less. Bacon's Henry VII.
Sucking and drawing the breast dischargeth the milk as fast as it can be generated. Wiseman on Tumours.
 To attract; to call towards itself.
We see that salt, laid to a cut finger, healeth it; so as it seemeth salt draweth blood, as well as blood draweth salt. Bacon.
Majesty in an eclipse, like the sun, draws eyes, that would not have looked towards it, if it had shined out. Suckling.
He affected a habit different from that of the times, such as men had only beheld in pictures, which drew the eyes of most, and the reverence of many towards him. Clarendon.
All eyes you draw, and with the eyes the heart;Of your own pomp yourself the greatest part. Dryden.
 To inhale.
Thus I call'd, and stray'd I know not whither,From where I first drew air, and first beheldThis happy light. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. viii. l. 284.
While near the Lucrine lake, consum'd to death,I draw the sultry air, and gasp for breath,You taste the cooling breeze. Addison's Remarks on Italy.
Why drew Marseille's good bishop purer breath,When nature sicken'd, and each gale was death? Pope.
 To take from any thing containing.
They drew out the staves of the ark. 2 Chron. v. 2.
 To take from a cask.
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere leesAre left this vault to brag of. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 To pull a sword from the sheath.
We will our youth lead on to higher fields,And draw no swords, but what are sanctify'd. Shakesp. H. IV.
I will draw my sword; my hand shall destroy them. Ex. xv.
He proceeded so far in his insolence as to draw out his sword, with an intent to kill him. Dryden's Conq. of Grenada.
In all your wars good fortune blew before you,'Till in my fatal cause your sword was drawn;The weight of my misfortunes dragg'd you down. Dryden.
 To let out any liquid.
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinionOf my more fierce endeavour. Shakespeare's King Lear.
I opened the tumour by the point of a lancet, without drawing one drop of blood. Wiseman's Surgery.
 To take bread out of the oven.
The joyner puts boards into ovens after the batch is drawn. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 To unclose or slide back curtains.
Go, draw aside the curtains, and discoverThe sev'ral caskets to this noble prince. Shak. Merch. of Ven.
Alarm'd, and with presaging heart he came,And drew the curtains, and expos'd the dameTo lothsome light. Dryden's Sigism. and Guiscar.
Shouts, cries, and groans first pierce my ears, and thenA flash of lightning draws the guilty scene,And shows new arms, and wounds, and dying men. Dryden.
 To close or spread curtains.
Philoclea earnestly again intreated Pamela to open her grief, who, drawing the curtain, that the candle might not complain of her blushing, was ready to speak. Sidney, b. ii.
 To extract.
Spirits, by distillations, may be drawn out of vegetable juices, which shall flame and fume of themselves. Cheyne.
 To procure as an agent cause.
When he finds the hardship of slavery outweigh the value of life, 'tis in his power, by resisting his master, to draw on himself death. Locke.
 To produce or bring as an efficient cause.
Have they invented tones to winThe women, and make them draw inThe men, as Indians with a femaleTame elephant inveigle the male? Hudibras, p. i. cant. 2.
Religion will requite all the honour we can do it, by the blessings it will draw down upon us. Tillotson.
Our voluntary actions are the precedent causes of good and evil, which they draw after them, and bring upon us. Locke.
What would a man value acres of excellent land, ready cultivated, and well stocked too with cattle, where he had no hopes of commerce with other parts of the world to draw money to him, by the sale of the product of the island. Locke.
Those elucidations have given rise or increase to his doubts, and drawn obscurity upon places of scripture. Locke.
His sword ne'er fell but on the guilty head;Oppression, tyranny, and pow'r usurp'd,Draw all the vengeance of his arm upon 'em. Addis. Cato.
 To convey secretly.
The liers in wait draw themselves along. Judg. xx. 37.
In process of time, and as their people increased, they drew themselves more westerly towards the Red sea. Raleigh's History of the World.
 To protract; to lengthen.
                  Do you noteHow much her grace is alter'd on the sudden?How long her face is drawn? how pale she looks,And of an earthly cold? Observe her eyes! Shak. H. VIII.
If we shall meet again with more delight,Then draw my life in length; let me sustain,In hopes of his embrace, the worst of pain. Dryden's Æn.
In some similes men draw their comparisons into minute particulars of no importance. Felton on the Classicks.
 To utter lingeringly.
The brand amid' the flaming fuel thrown,Or drew, or seem'd to draw, a dying groan. Dryd. Fables.
 To represent by picture; or in fancy.
                                I do arm myselfTo welcome the condition of the time;Which cannot look more hideously on me,Than I have drawn it in my fantasy. Shakesp. Henry IV.
With his other hand, thus o'er his brow,He falls to such perusal of my face,As he would draw it. Shakespeare's Hamlet.
Draw the whole world expecting who should reign,After this combat, o'er the conquer'd main. Waller.
            From the soft assaults of lovePoets and painters never are secure:Can I, untouch'd, the fair one's passions move,Or thou draw beauty, and not feel its pow'r? Prior.
 To form a representation.
The emperor one day took up a pencil which fell from the hand of Titian, who was then drawing his picture; and upon the compliment which Titian made him on that occasion, he said, Titian deserves to be served by Cæsar. Dryden's Dufres.
 To derive; to have from some original cause or donor.
Shall freeborn men, in humble awe,Submit to servile shame;Who from consent and custom drawThe same right to be rul'd by law,Which kings pretend to reign? Dryden.
Several wits entered into commerce with the Egyptians, and from them drew the rudiments of sciences. Temple.
 To deduce as from postulates.
From the events and revolutions of these governments are drawn the usual instruction of princes and statesmen. Temple.
 To imply; to produce as a consequential inference.
What shews the force of the inference but a view of all the intermediate ideas that draw in the conclusion, or proposition inferred. Locke.
 To allure; to entice.
          I'll raise such artificial sprights,As, by the strength of their illusion,Shall draw him on to his confusion. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
We have drawn them from the city. Jos. viii. 6.
Draw me not away from the wicked. Ps. xxviii. 3.
Having the art, by empty promises and threats, to draw others to his purpose. Hayward.
The Spaniards, that were in the town, had so good memories of their losses in their former sallies, as the confidence of an army, which came for their deliverance, could not draw them forth again. Bacon's War with Spain.
 To lead as a motive.
            Your way is shorter;My purposes do draw me much about. Sh. Ant. and Cleop.
Æneas wond'ring stood, then ask'd the causeWhich to the stream the crowding people draws. Dryden.
 To persuade to follow.
                      The poetDid feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones, and floods;Since nought so stockish, hard, and full of rage,But musick, for the time, doth change his nature. Shakesp.
 To induce; to persuade.
The English lords, to strengthen their parties, did ally themselves with the Irish, and drew them in to dwell among them, and gave their children to be fostered by them. Davies.
Their beauty or unbecomingness are of more force to draw or deter their imitation than discourses. Locke.
 To win; to gain: a metaphor from cards.
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw meThat which my father loses. Shakespeare's King Lear.
 To receive; to take up.
For thy three thousand ducats here is fix.— If every ducat in six thousand ducatsWere in six parts, and every part a ducat,I would not draw them, I would have my bond. Shakesp.
 To extort; to force.
So sad an object, and so well express'd,Drew sighs and groans from the griev'd hero's breast. Dryd.
                Can you e'er forgetThe fond embraces, and repeated blessings,Which you drew from him in your last farewel? Add. Cato.
 To wrest; to distort.
I wish that both you and others would cease from drawing the Scriptures to your fantasies and affections. Whitgift.
 To compose; to form in writing.
In the mean time I will draw a bill of properties, such as our play wants. Shakesp. Midsummer Night's Dream.
Clerk, draw a deed of gift. Shakes. Merch. of Venice.
The report is not unartfully drawn, in the spirit of a pleader, who can find the most plausible topicks. Swift.
Shall Ward draw contracts with a statesman's skill? Pope.
 To withdraw from judicial notice.
Go, wash thy face, and draw thy action; come, thou must not be in this humour with me. Shakespeare.
 To eviscerate; to embowel.
In private draw your poultry, clean your tripe,And from your eels their slimy substance wipe. King's Cook.
 To Draw in. To apply to any purpose by distortion or violence.
A dispute, where every little straw is laid hold on, and every thing that can but be drawn in any way, to give colour to the argument, is advanced with ostentation. Locke.
 To Draw in. To contract; to pull back.
Now, sporting muse, draw in the flowing reins;Leave the clear streams awhile for sunny plains. Gay.
 To Draw in. To inveigle; to intice.
It was the prostitute faith of faithless miscreants that drew them in, and deceived them. South's Sermons.
 To Draw off. To extract by distillation.
Authors, who have thus drawn off the spirits of their thoughts, should lie still for some time, 'till their minds have gathered fresh strength, and by reading, reflection, and conversation, laid in a new stock of elegancies, sentiments, and images of nature. Addison's Freeholder, № 40.
 To drain out by a vent.
Stop your vessel, and have a little vent-hole stopped with a spill, which never allow to be pulled out 'till you draw off a great quantity. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 To Draw off. To withdraw; to abstract.
It draws mens minds off from the bitterness of party. Add.
 To Draw on. To occasion; to invite.
Under colour of war, which either his negligence draws on, or his practices procured, he levied a subsidy. Hayward.
 To Draw on. To cause; to bring by degrees.
The examination of the subtile matter would draw on the consideration of the nice controversies that perplex philosophers. Boyle on Fluids.
 To Draw over. To raise in a still.
I took rectified oil of vitriol, and by degrees mixed with it essential oil of wormwood, drawn over with water in a limbeck. Boyle on Colours.
 To Draw over. To persuade to revolt; to induce to change a party.
Some might be brought into his interests by money, others drawn over by fear. Addison on the State of the War.
One of the differing sentiments would have drawn Luther over to his party. Atterbury.
 To Draw out. To protract; to lengthen.
          He must not only die the death,But thy unkindness shall his death draw outTo ling'ring sufferance. Shakesp. Measure for Measure.
Virgil has drawn out the rules of tillage and planting into two books, which Hesiod has dispatched in half a one. Addis.
 To Draw out. To extract; to pump out by insinuation.
Philoclea found her, and, to draw out more, said she, I have often wondered how such excellencies could be. Sidney.
 To Draw out. To call to action; to detach for service; to range.
      Draw out a file, pick man by man,Such who dare die, and dear will fell their death. Dryden.
                    Th' Arcadian kingAnd Trojan youth the same oblations bring;Next of his men, and ships, he makes review,Draws out the best and ablest of the crew. Dryden's Æn.
 To range in battle.
Let him desire his superior officer, that the next time he is drawn out the challenger may be posted near him. Collier.
 To Draw up. To form in order of battle.
The lord Bernard, with the king's troops, seeing there was no enemy left on that side, drew up in a large field opposite to the bridge. Clarendon, b. viii.
            So Muley-Zeydan found usDrawn up in battle to receive the charge. Dryd. Don Sebast.
 To Draw up. To form in writing; to contrive.
To make a sketch, or a more perfect model of a picture, is, in the language of poets, to draw up the scenary of a play. Dry.
A paper might be drawn up, and signed by two or three hundred principal gentlemen. Swift.

Dray
Dray.Dráycart.

n.s. [draʒ, Saxon.] The car on which beer is carried.


 Let him be brought into the field of election upon his draycart, and I will meet him there in a triumphant chariot. Addis.
 When drays bound high, then never cross behind, Where bubbling yest is blown by gusts of wind. Gay's Trivia.

Draycart
Dray.Dráycart.

n.s. [draʒ, Saxon.] The car on which beer is carried.


 Let him be brought into the field of election upon his draycart, and I will meet him there in a triumphant chariot. Addis.
 When drays bound high, then never cross behind, Where bubbling yest is blown by gusts of wind. Gay's Trivia.

Dread (adjective)
Dread. adj. [dræd, Saxon.]

 Terrible; frightful.
            That e'er this tongue of mine,That laid the sentence of dread banishmentOn yond' proud man, should take it off againWith words of sooth! Shakespeare's Richard II.
It cannot be, but thou hast murther'd him:So should a murtherer look, so dread, so grim. Shakespeare.
To be expos'd against the warring winds?To stand against the deep dread bolted thunder. Shakesp.
                        AmazeBe sure, and terrour, seiz'd the rebel host,When, coming towards them, so dread they sawThe bottom of the mountains upward turn'd. Milt. P. Lost.
 Awful; venerable in the highest degree.
      Thou, attended gloriously from heav'n,Shalt in the sky appear, and from thee sendThe summoning archangels to proclaimThy dread tribunal. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. iii. l. 323.
                From this descentCelestial virtues rising, will appearMore glorious and more dread than from no fall. Milton.
 This seems to be the meaning of that controverted phrase dread majesty. Some of the old acts of parliament are said in the preface to be metuendissimi regis, our dread sovereign's.

Dread (noun)
Dread. n.s. [drad, Saxon.]

 Fear; terrour; affright.
Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak,When pow'r to flatt'ry bows? To plainness honourIs bound, when majesty to folly falls. Shakesp. King Lear.
But was ever any wicked man free from the stings of a guilty conscience, from the secret dread of divine displeasure, and of the vengeance of another world? Tillotson, Serm. 4.
If our fears can be awakened with the dread of evil, he has armed his laws with the terrour of eternal misery. Rogers.
 Habitual fear; awe.
The fear of you, and the dread of you, shall be upon every beast of the earth. Gen. ix. 2.
 The person or thing feared; the cause of fear.
To thee, of all our good the sacred spring;To thee, our dearest dread; to thee, our softer king. Prior.

Dread (verb active)
To Dread. v.a. [from the noun.] To fear in an excessive degree.
You may despise that which terrifies others, and which yet all, even those who most dread it, must in a little time encounter. Wake.

Dread (verb neuter)
To Dread. v.n. To be in fear.
Dread not, neither be afraid of them. Deut. i. 8.

Drift (noun)
Drift. n.s. [from drive.]

 Force impellent; impulse; overbearing influence.
 A man being under the drift of any passion, will still follow the impulse of it, 'till something interpose, and, by a stronger impulse, turn him another way. South's Sermons.
 Violence; course.
 The mighty trunk, half rent with rugged rift,Doth roll adown the rocks, and fall with fearful drift. F. Q.
 Any thing driven at random.
 Some log, perhaps, upon the waters swam,An useless drift, which rudely cut within,And hollow'd, first a floating trough became,And cross some riv'let passage did begin. Dryd. Ann. Mirab.
 Any thing driven or born along in a body.
                  The ready racers stand,Swift as on wings of wind up-borne they fly,And drifts of rising dust involve the sky. Pope's Odyssey.
 A storm; a shower.
                  Our thunder from the South Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town. Shak. K. John.
 A heap or stratum of any matter thrown together by the wind; as, a snowdrift, a deep body of snow.

 Tendency, or aim of action.
 The particular drift of every act, proceeding eternally from God, we are not able to discern; and therefore cannot always give the proper and certain reason of his works. Hook.
 Their drift 'comes known, and they discover'd are;For some, of many, will be false of course. Daniel's C. War.
 Scope of a discourse.
 The main drift of his book being to prove, that what is true is impossible to be false, he opposes nobody. Tillot. Pref.
 The drift of the pamphlet is to stir up our compassion towards the rebels. Addison.
 This by the stile, the manner, and the drift,'Twas thought could be the work of none but Swift. Swift.

Drift (verb)
To Drift. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To drive; to urge along.
 Snow no larger than so many grains of sand, drifted with the wind in clouds from every plain. Ellis's Voyage.
 Thrown together on heaps.
                              He wanders onFrom hill to dale, still more and more astray,Impatient flouncing through the drifted heaps. Thomson.

Drive (verb active)


Drive (verb neuter)


Dromedary
Drómedary. n.s. [dromedare, Italian.]
A sort of camel so called from its swiftness, because it is said to travel a hundred miles a day, and some affirm one hundred and fifty.  Dromedaries are smaller than common camels, slenderer, and more nimble, and are of two kinds: one larger, with two small bunches, covered with hair, on its back; the other lesser, with one hairy eminence, and more frequently called camel: both are capable of great fatigue, and very serviceable in the western parts of Asia, where they abound.  Their hair is soft and shorn: they have no fangs and foreteeth, nor horn upon their feet, which are only covered with a fleshy skin; and they are about seven feet and a half high, from the ground to the top of their heads.  They drink much at a time, and are said to disturb the water with their feet.  They keep the water long in their stomachs, which, as some report, travellers in necessity will open for the sake of the water contained in them.  The stomach of this animal is composed of four ventricles; and in the second are several mouths, which open a passage into twenty cavities, which serve for conservatories of water. See Camel. Calmet.
Straw for the horses and dromedaries brought they unto the place. 1 Kings iv. 28.

Drop (noun)
Drop. n.s. [ꝺꞃoppa, Saxon.]

 A gobule of moisture; as much liquor as falls at once when there is not a continual stream.
 Meet we the med'cine of our country's weal, And with him pour we in our country's purge, Each drop of us. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 Whereas Aristotle tells us, that if a drop of wine be put into ten thousand measures of water, the wine being overpowered by so vast a quantity of water, will be turned into it: he speaks, to my apprehension, very improbably. Boyle.
 Admiring, in the gloomy shade, Those little drops of light. Waller.
 Had I but known that Sancho was his father, I would have pour'd a deluge of my blood To save one drop of his. Dryden's Spanish Fryar.
 Diamond hanging in the ear.
 The drops to thee, Brillante, we consign; And, Momentilla, let the watch be thine. Pope.

Drum (noun)
Drum. n.s. [tromme, Danish; drumme, Erse.]

 An instrument of military musick, consisting of vellum strained over a broad hoop on each side, and beaten with sticks.
Let's march without the noise of threat'ning drums. Shak.
In drums the closeness round about, that preserveth the sound from dispersing, maketh the noise come forth at the drum-hole, far more loud and strong than if you should strike upon the like skin extended in the open air. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
Tears trickling down their breasts bedew the ground,And drums and trumpets mix their mournful sound. Dryden.
                Now no more the drumProvokes to arms, or trumpet's clangor shrillAffrights the wives, and chills the virgin's blood. Phillips.
 The tympanum of the ear, or the membrane which perceives the vibration of the air.

Drum (verb)
To Drum. v.n.

 To beat a drum; to beat a tune on a drum.

 To beat with a pulsatory motion.
                        Now, heart,Be ribb'd with iron for this one attempt;Set ope thy sluices, send the vigorous bloodThrough every active limb for my relief;Then take thy rest within the quiet cell;For thou shalt drum no more. Dryden's Don Sebastian.

Dry (adjective)
Dry. adj. [ꝺꞃıᵹ, Saxon.]

 Arid; without wet; without moisture; not wet; not moist.
 If the pipe be a little wet on the inside, it will make a differing sound from the same pipe dry. Bacon's Natural History.
                         When God said,Be gather'd now, ye waters under heav'n,Into one place, and let dry land appear! Milton's Par. Lost.
             Of turbid elements the sport;From clear to cloudy tost, from hot to cold,And dry to moist. Thomson.
 Without rain.
 A dry March and a dry May portend a wholsome Summer, if there be a showering April between. Bacon's Nat. History.
 The weather, we agreed, was too dry for the season. Addis.
 Not succulent; not juicy.
              I will drain him dry as hay;Sleep shall neither night nor dayHang upon his penthouse lid:He shall live a man forbid. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 Without tears.
 Dry mourning will decays more deadly bring,As a North wind burns a too forward Spring:Give sorrow vent, and let the sluices go. Dryden's Aurengz.
 Thirsty; a-thirst.
 So dry he was for sway. Shakespeare's Tempest.
 Void of a bulky charger near their lips,With which, in often interrupted sleep,Their frying blood compels to irrigateTheir dry furr'd tongues. Phillips.
 Jejune; barren; plain; unembellished; without pathos.
 As we should take care that our stile in writing be neither dry nor empty, we should look again it be not winding or wanton with far-fetched descriptions: either is a vice. B. Johns.
 It remaineth to treat concerning ornaments within, or without the fabrick, a piece not so dry as the meer contemplation of proportions; and therefore, I hope, therein somewhat to refresh both the reader and myself. Wotton's Architecture.
 That the fire burns by heat, is an empty dry return to the question, and leaves us still ignorant. Glanv. Sceps. c. 20.
 It is a dry fable, with little or nothing in it. L'Estrange.
 Authority and friendship work upon some, dry and sober reason works upon others. L'Estrange.
 To clear up this theory, I was willing to lay aside dry subtilties with which the schools are filled. Burnet's Theory.
 These epistles will become less dry, and more susceptible of ornament. Pope.
 Hard; severe. [Drien anciently to endure, dree, Scottish.]
 I rather hop'd I should no moreHear from you o' th' gallanting score;For hard dry bastings used to proveThe readiest remedies of love;Next a dry diet. Hudibras, p. ii. cant. i.

Dry (verb active)
To Dry. v.a.

 To free from moisture; to arefy; to exsiccate.
 The meat was well, if you were so contented.— I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt, and dry'd away, And I expressly am forbid to touch it. Shakespeare.
 Heat drieth bodies that do easily expire; as parchment, leaves, roots, and clay; and so doth time or age arefy, as in the same bodies. Bacon's Natural History, №. 294.
 Herbs and flowers, if they be dried in the shade, or dried in the hot sun a small time, keep best. Bacon's Nat. History.
         The running streams are deep:See, they have caught the father of the flock;Who dryes his fleece upon the neighbouring rock. Dryden.
 To exhale moisture.
 'Twas grief no more, or grief and rage were one,Within her soul: at last 'twas rage alone;Which burning upwards in succession, driesThe tears that stood considering in her eyes. Dryd. Fables.
 The water of the sea, which formerly covered it, was in time exhaled and dried up by the sun. Woodward's Nat. Hist.
 To wipe away moisture.
 Then with her vest the wound she wipes and dries. Denh.
 See, at your blest returning,Rage disappears;The widow'd isle in mourning,Dries up her tears. Dryden's Albion.
 To scorch with thirst.
 Their honourable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. Is. v. 13.
 To drain; to exhaust.
                      Rash Elpenor, in an evil hour,Dry'd an immeasurable bowl, and thoughtT' exhale his surfeit by irriguous sleepImprudent: him, death's iron sleep opprest. Phillips.

Dry (verb neuter)
To Dry. v.n. To grow dry;to lose moisture; to be drained of its moisture.

Dubitable
Dúbitable. adj. [dubito, Latin.] Doubtful; uncertain; what may be doubted.

Dubitation
Dubitátion. n.s. [dubitatio, Latin.] The act of doubting; doubt.
Many of the ancients denied the antipodes; but the experience of our enlarged navigation can now assert them beyond all dubitation. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. i. c. 7.
Dubitation may be called a negative perception; that is, when I perceive that what I see, is not what I would see. Grew.

Due (adjective)
Due. adj. The participle passive of owe. [dû, French.]

 Owed; that which any one has a right to demand in consequence of a compact, or for any other reason.
 There is due from the judge to the advocate some commendation and gracing, where causes are well handled and fair pleaded. Bacon, Essay 57.
 There is likewise due to the publick a civil reprehension of advocates, where there appeareth cunning, gross neglect, or slight information. Bacon, Essay 57.
 Mirth and chearfulness are but the due reward of innocency of life. More's Divine Dialogues.
 A present blessing upon our fasts is neither originally due from God's justice, nor becomes due to us from his veracity. Smalridge's Sermons.
 There is a respect due to mankind, which should incline ever the wisest of men to follow innocent customs. Watts.
 Proper; fit; appropriate.
 Opportunity may be taken to excite, in persons attending on those solemnities, a due sense of the vanity of earthly satisfactions. Atterbury.
 Exact; without deviation.
 You might see him come towards me beating the ground in so due time, as no dancer can observe better measure. Sidn.
 And Eve within, due at her hour, prepar'd For dinner savoury fruits. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. v.

Dulcify
To Dúlcify. v.a. [dulcifier, French.] To sweeten; to set free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony of any kind.
A decoction of wild gourd, or colocynthis, though somewhat qualified, will not from every hand be dulcified into aliment, by an addition of flower or meal. Brown's Vulgar Err.
I dressed him with a pledgit, dipt in a dulcified tincture of vitriol. Wiseman's Surgery.
Spirit of wine dulcifies spirit of salt; nitre, or vitriol have other bad effects. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Dyscrasy
Dýscrasy. n.s. [δυσκρασία.] An unequal mixture of elements in the blood or nervous juice; a distemperature, when some humour or quality abounds in the body. Dict.
 In this pituitous dyscrasy of blood, we must vomit off the pituita, and purge upon intermissions. Floyer on the Humours.

Dysentery
Dyséntery. n.s. [dysenterie, French, from δυσεντερία.] A looseness wherein very ill humours flow off by stool, and are also sometimes attended with blood. Dict.
 From an unusual inconstancy of the weather, and perpetual changes of the wind from East to West, proceed epidemical dysenteries. Arbuthnot on Air.

Dyspepsy
Dyspépsy. n.s. [δυσπεψία.] A difficulty of digestion, or bad fermentation in the stomach or guts. Dict.

Dysphony
Dýsphony. n.s. [δυσφωνία.] A difficulty in speaking, occasioned by an ill disposition of the organs. Dict.

Dyspnoea
Dyspnóea. n.s. [δύσπνοια.] A difficulty of breathing; straitness of breath.

Dysury
Dýsury. n.s. [δυσουρία.] A difficulty in making urine.
 It doth end in a dysentery, pains of the hæmorrhoids, inflammations of any of the lower parts, diabetes, a continual pissing, or a hot dysury, difficulty of making water. Harvey.
