I
I, Is in English considered both as a vowel and consonant; though, since the vowel and consonant differ in their form as well as sound, they may be more properly accounted two letters.
I vowel has a long sound, as fine, thine, which is usually marked by an e final; and a short sound, as fin, thin. Prefixed to e it makes a diphthong of the same sound with the soft i, or double e, ee: thus field, yield, are spoken as feeld, yeeld; except friend, which is spoken frend. Subjoined to a or e it makes them long, as fail, neigh; and to o makes a mingled sound, which approaches more nearly to the true notion of a diphthong, or sound composed of the sounds of two vowels, than any other combination of vowels in the English tongue, as oil, coin.  The sound of i before another i, and at the end of a word, is always expressed by y.
J consonant has invariably the same sound with that of g in giant; as jade, jet, jilt, jolt, just.

I (personal pronoun)
I. pronoun personal. [ik, Gothick; ic, Saxon; ich, Dutch.]


I,
gen.
me;
plural
we;
gen.
us.


ic,
 
me,
 
we,
 
us.



 The pronoun of the first person, myself.
I do not like these several councils, I. Shakes. Rich. III.
There is none greater in this house than I. Gen. xxxix. 9.
Be of good cheer, it is I; be not afraid. Mat. xiv. 27.
What shall I do to be for ever known,And make the age to come my own?I shall like beasts or common people dye,Unless you write my elegy. Cowley.
Hence, and make room for me. Cowley.
When chance of business parts us two,What do our souls, I wonder, do? Cowley.
Of that book you have given us a large earnest. Cowley.
Thus, having pass'd the night in fruitless pain,I to my longing friends return again. Dryden's &AE;n.
 Me is in the following passage written for I.
There is but one man whom she can have, and that is me. Clarissa.
 I is more than once in Shakespeare written for ay, or yes.
Hath Romeo slain himself? Say thou but I,And that bare vowel, I, shall poison moreThan the death-darting eye of cockatrice. Shakespeare.
Did your letters pierce the queen?— I, sir; she took 'em and read 'em in my presence,And now and then an ample tear trill'd down. Shakespeare.

I'd


Iambick
Iámbick. n.s. [iambique, French; iambicus, Latin.] Verses composed of iambick feet, or a short and long syllable alternately: used originaly in satire, therefore taken for satire.
In thy felonious heart though venom lies,It does but touch thy Irish pen, and dies:Thy genius calls thee not to purchase fameIn keen iambicks, but mild anagram. Dryden.

Iatroleptick
Iatroléptick. adj. [iatraleptique, Fr. ἰατρὸς and ἀλέιφω.] That which cures by anointing.

Ice (noun)
Ice. n.s. [is, Saxon; eyse, Dutch.]

 Water or other liquor made solid by cold
            You are no surer, no,Than is the coal of fire upon the ice,Or hailstone in the sun. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
Thou art all ice, thy kindness freezes. Shakesp. R. III.
If I should ask whether ice and water were two different species of things, I doubt not but I should be answered in the affirmative. Locke.
 Concreted sugar.

 To break the Ice. To make the first opening to any attempt.
      If you break the ice, and do this feat,Atchieve the elder, set the younger freeFor our access, whose hap shall be to have her,Will not so graceless be to be ingrate. Shakespeare.
Thus have I broken the ice to invention, for the lively representation of floods and rivers necessary for our painters and poets. Peacham on Drawing.
After he'd a while look'd wise,At last broke silence and the ice. Hudibras, p. iii.

Ice (verb)
To Ice. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To cover with ice; to turn to ice.

 To cover with concreted sugar.

Icehouse
Icehouse. n.s. [ice and house.] A house in which ice is reposited against the warm months.

Ichneumon
Ichnéumon. n.s. [ἰχνέυμων.] A small animal that breaks the eggs of the crocodile.

Ichneumonfly
Ichneumonflý. n.s. A sort of fly.
The generation of the ichneumonfly is in the bodies of caterpillars, and other nymphæ of insects. Derham's Physico-Theol.

Ichnography
Ichnógraphy. n.s. [ἰχνος and γράφω.] The groundplot.
It will be more intelligible to have a draught of each front in a paper by itself, and also to have a draught of the groundplot or ichnography of every story in a paper by itself. Moxon.

Ichor
Íchor. n.s. [ἰχωρ.] A thin watery humour like serum. Quincy.
Milk, drawn from some animals that feed only upon flesh, will be more apt to turn rancid and putrify, acquiring first a saline taste, which is a sign of putrefaction, and then it will turn into an ichor. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Ichorous
Íchorous. adj. [from ichor.] Sanious; thin; undigested.
The lung-growth is imputed to a superficial sanious or ichorous exulceration. Harvey on Consumptions.
The pus from an ulcer of the liver, growing thin and ichorous, corrodes the vessels. Arbuthnot on Diet.

Ichthyology
Ichthyólogy. n.s. [ichthyologie, Fr. ἰχθυολογία, from ἰχθὺς and λέγω.] The doctrine of the nature of fish.
 Some there are, as camels and sheep, which carry no name in ichthyology. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Ichthyophagy
Ichthyóphagy. n.s. [ἰχθὺς and φάγω.] Diet of fish; the practice of eating fish.

Icicle
Ícicle. n.s. [from ice.] A shoot of ice hanging down from the upper part.
 If distilled vinegar or aqua-fortis be poured into the powder of loadstone, the subsiding powder, dried, retains some magnetical virtue; but if the menstruum be evaporated to a consistence, and afterwards doth shoot into icicles, or crystals, the loadstone hath no power upon them. Brown's Vulgar Err.
 From locks uncomb'd, and from the frozen beard, Long icicles depend, and crackling sounds are heard. Dryd.
 The common dropstone consists principally of spar, and is frequently found in form of an icicle, hanging down from the tops and sides of grotto's. Woodward's Nat. History.

Iciness
Íciness. n.s. [from icy.] The state of generating ice.

Icon
Ícon. n.s. [ἐικὼν.] A picture or representation.
 Boysardus, in his tract of divination, hath set forth the icons of these ten, yet added two others. Brown's Vulg. Err.
 Some of our own nations, and many Netherlanders, whose names and icons are published, have deserved good commendation. Hakewill on Providence.

Iconoclast
Icónoclast. n.s. [iconoclaste, French; ἔικονοκλαστης.] A breaker of images.

Iconology
Iconólogy. n.s. [iconologie, French; ἐικὼν and λέγω.] The doctrine of picture or representation.

Icterical
Ictérical. n.s. [icterique, French; icterus, Latin.]

 Afflicted with the jaundice.
 In the jaundice the choler is wanting, and the icterical have a great sourness, and gripes with windiness. Floyer.
 Good against the jaundice.

Icy


Idea


Ideal


Ideally


Identical


Identick


Identity


Ides
Ides. n.s. [ides, Fr. idus, Lat.] A term anciently used among the Romans, and still retained in the Romish kalendar.  It is the 13th day of each month, except in the months of March, May, July and October, in which it is the 15th day, because in these four months it was six days before the nones, and in the others four days.  Trevoux.
 A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March. Shakesp.

Idiocrasy
Idiócrasy. n.s. [idiocrase, French; ἴδιος and κρᾶσις.] Peculiarity of constitution.

Idiocratical
Idiocrátical. adj. [from idiocrasy.] Peculiar in constitution.

Idiocy
Ídiocy. n.s. [ἰδιωτία.] Want of understanding.
 I stand not upon their idiocy in thinking that horses did eat their bits. Bacon's Holy War.

Idiom
Ídiom. n.s. [idiome, French; ἰδίωμα.] A mode of speaking peculiar to a language or dialect; the particular cast of a tongue; a phrase; phraseology.
 He did romanize our tongue, leaving the words translated as much Latin as he found them; wherein he followed their language, but did not comply with the idiom of ours. Dryden.
 Some that with care true eloquence shall teach, And to just idioms fix our doubtful speech. Prior.

Idiomatical


Idiomatick


Idiopathy


Idiosyncrasy
Idiosýncrasy. n.s. [idiosynacrase, Fr. ἴδιος, σύν, and κρᾶσις.] A peculiar temper or disposition not common to another. Qui.
 Whether quails, from any idiosyncrasy or peculiarity of constitution, do innocuously feed upon hellebore, or rather sometimes but medicinally use the same. Brown's Vulg. Errours.
 The understanding also hath its idiosyncrasies, as well as other faculties. Glanv. Sceps. c. 15.

Idiot
Ídiot. n.s. [idiote, Fr. idiota, Latin; ἰδιώτης.] A fool; a natural; a changeling; one without the powers of reason.
                     Life is a tale, Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 What else doth he herein, than by a kind of circumlocution tell his humble suppliants that he holds them idiots, or base wretches, not able to get relief? Raleigh's Essays.
 By idle boys and idiots vilify'd, Who me and my calamities deride. Sandys.
 Many idiots will believe that they see what they only hear. Dennis.

Idiotism


Idle (adjective)
Ídle. adj. [ẏdel, Saxon.]

 Lazy; averse from labour.
 For shame, so much to do, and yet idle. Bull.
 Not busy; at leisure.
 For often have you writ to her; and she in modesty, Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply. Shak.
 Unactive; not employed.
 No war or battle's sound Was heard the world around, The idle spear and shield were high up hung. Milton.
 Children generally hate to be idle; all the care then is, that their busy humour should be constantly employed in something of use to them. Locke.
 Supposing, among a multitude embarked in the same vessel, there are several that, in the fury of a tempest, will rather perish than work for their preservation; would it not be madness in the rest to stand idle, and rather chuse to sink than do more than comes to their share? Addison.
 Useless; vain; ineffectual.
         They astonish'd, all resistance lost, All courage; down their idle weapons dropp'd. Milton.
 And threatning France, plac'd like a painted Jove, Held idle thunder in his lifted hand. Dryden.
                 Where was then The power that guards the sacred lives of kings? Why slept the lightning and the thunderbolts, Or bent their idle rage on fields and trees, When vengeance call'd 'em here? Dryden's Spanish Fryar.
 Worthless; barren; not productive of good.
 Suffice it then, thou money god, quoth he, That all thine idle offers I refuse; all that I need I have: what needeth me To covet more than I have cause to use? Fairy Queen.
         Of antres vast, and desarts idle, It was my hent to speak. Shakespeare's Othello.
             The murmuring surge, That on th' unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes, Cannot be heard so high. Shakesp. King Lear.
             He was met even now, Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds, Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow In our sustaining corn. Shakesp. King Lear.
 Trifling; of no importance: as, an idle story.
 This answer is both idle in regard of us, and also repugnant to themselves. Hooker.
 They are not, in our estimation, idle reproofs, when the authors of needless innovations are opposed with such negatives, as that of Leo: how are these new devices brought in, which our fathers never knew? Hooker, b. ii.
 His friend smil'd scornful, and, with proud contempt, Rejects as idle what his fellow dreamt. Dryden.
 An idle reason lessens the weight of the good ones you gave before. Swift.
 How ill he wishes to recall the precious hours he has spent in trifles, and loitered away in idle unprofitable diversions. Roger's Sermons.

Illaqueate
To Illáqueate. v.a. [illaqueo, Latin.] To entangle; to entrap; to ensnare.
 I am illaquated, but not truly captivated into an assent to your conclusion. More's Divine Dialogues.

Illaqueation


Illation


Illative
Íllative. adj. [illatus, Latin.] Relating to illation or conclusion.
 In common discourse or writing such causal particles as for, because, manifest the act of reasoning as well as the illative particles then and therefore. Watts.

Illaudable
Illa'udable. adj. [illaudabilis, Latin.] Unworthy of praise or commendation.
Strength from truth divided and from just, Illaudable, nought merits but dispraise. Milton's Par. Lost.

Illaudably
Illa'udably. adv. [from illaudable.] Unworthy; without deserving praise.
 It is natural for all people to form, not illaudably, too favourable a judgment of their own country. Broome.

Illegal
Ille'gal. adj. [in and legalis, Latin.] Contrary to law.
No patent can oblige the subject against law, unless an illegal patent passed in one kingdom can bind another, and not itself. Swift.

Illegality
Illega'lity. n.s. [from illegal.]	Contrariety to law.
He wished them to consider what votes they had passed, of the illegality of all those commissions, and of the unjustifiableness of all the proceedings by virtue of them. Clarendon.

Illegally
Ille'gally. adv. [from illegal.] In a manner contrary to law.

Illegible


Illegitimacy


Illegitimate


Illegitimately


Illegitimation


Illeviable


Illfavoured


Illfavouredly
Illfávouredly. adv. With deformity.

Illfavouredness
Illfávouredness. n.s. Deformity.

Illiberal


Illiberality


Illiberally


Illicit
Illícit. adj. [illicitus, Latin; illicite, French.] Unlawful.

Illighten


Illimitable


Illimitably


Illimited


Illimitedness


Illiterate
Illíterate. adj. [illiteratus, Latin.] Unlettered; untaught; unlearned; unenlightened by science.
 The duke was illiterate, yet had learned at court to supply his own defects, by the drawing unto him of the best instruments of experience. Wotton.
 Th' illiterate writer, empirick like, applies To minds diseas'd unsafe chance remedies: The learn'd in schools, where knowledge first began, Studies with care th' anatomy of man; Sees virtue, vice, and passions in their cause, And fame from science, not from fortune draws. Dryden.
 In the first ages of Christianity not only the learned and the wise, but the ignorant and illiterate embraced torments and death. Tillotson's Sermons.

Illiterateness


Illiterature


Illnature


Illnatured


Illnaturedly


Illnaturedness


Illness


Illogical


Illogically
Illógically. adv. [from illogical.] In a manner contrary to the laws of argument.

Imbibe
To Imbíbe. v.a. [imbibo, Latin; imbiber, French.]

 To drink in; to draw in.
A pot of ashes will receive more hot water than cold, forasmuch as the warm water imbibeth more of the salt. Brown.
The torrent merciless imbibesCommissions, perquisites, and bribes. Swift.
                  Illumin'd wide,The dewy-skirted clouds imbibe the sun. Thomson's Autumn.
 To admit into the mind.
Those, that have imbibed this error, have extended the influence of this belief to the whole gospel, which they will not allow to contain any thing but promises. Hammond.
It is not easy for the mind to put off those confused notions and prejudices it has imbibed from custom. Locke.
Conversation with foreigners enlarges our minds, and sets them free from many prejudices we are ready to imbibe concerning them. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.
 To drench; to soak.  This sense, though unusual, perhaps unexampled, is necessary in the English, unless the word imbue be adopted, which our writers seem not willing to receive.
Metals, corroded with a little acid, turn into rust, which is an earth tasteless and indissolvable in water; and this earth, imbibed with more acid, becomes a metallick salt. Newton.

Imbiber
Imbíber. n.s. [from imbibe.] That which drinks or sucks.
Salts are strong imbibers of sulphureous steams. Arbuthnot.

Imbibition
Imbibítion. n.s. [imbibition, French, from imbibe.] The act of sucking or drinking in.
Most powders grow more coherent by mixture of water than of oil: the reason is the congruity of bodies, which maketh a perfecter imbibition and incorporation. Bacon.
Heat and cold have a virtual transition, without communication of substance, but in moisture not; and to all madefaction there is required an imbibition. Bacon's Natural History.
A drop of oil, let fall upon a sheet of white paper, that part of it, which, by the imbibition of the liquor, acquires a greater continuity and some transparency, will appear much darker than the rest; many of the incident beams of light being now transmitted, that otherwise would be reflected. Boyle.

Immusical


Immutability


Immutable


Immutably
Immu'tably. adv. [from immutable.] Unalterably; invariably, unchangeably.
His love is like his essence, immutably eternal. Boyle.

Imp (noun)
Imp. n.s. [imp, Welsh, a shoot, a sprout, a sprig.]

 A son; the offspring; progeny.
 That noble imp your son. Lord Cromwel to King Henry.
 And thou, most dreaded imp of highest Jove, Fair Venus' son. Fairy Queen, b. i.
 The tender imp was weaned from the teat. Fairfax.
 A lad of life, an imp of fame. Shakesp. Henry V.
  A subaltern devil, a puny devil. In this sense 'tis still retained.
 Such we deny not to be the imps and limbs of Satan. Hook.
          Him after long debate, irresolute Of thoughts revolv'd, his final sentence chose, Fit vessel, fittest imp of fraud, in whom To enter, and his dark suggestions hide From sharpest sight. Milt. Paradise Lost, b. ix.
 As soon as you can hear his knell, This god on earth turns d——l in hell; And, lo! his ministers of state Transform'd to imps, his levee wait. Swift.

Imp (verb)


Impact
To Impa'ct. v.a. [impactus, Latin.] To drive close or hard.
They are angular; but of what particular figure is not easy to determine, because of their being impacted so thick and confusedly together. Woodward on Fossils.

Impaint
To Impa'int. v.a. [in and paint.] To paint; to decorate with colours.  Not in use.
             Never yet did insurrection want Such water-colours to impaint his cause. Shakesp. H. VI.

Impair (noun)
Impa'ir. n.s. [from the verb.] Diminution, decrease.
A loadstone, kept in undue position, that is, not lying on the meridian, or with its poles inverted, receives in longer time impair in activity and exchanges of faces, and is more powerfully preserved by site that dust of steel. Brown.

Impair (verb active)


Impair (verb neuter)
To Impa'ir. v.n. To be lessened or worn out.
Flesh may impair, quoth he; but reason can repair. F. Q.

Impairment
Impa'irment. n.s. [from impair.] Diminution; injury.
His posterity, at this distance, and after so perpetual impairment, cannot but condemn the poverty of Adam's conception, that thought to obscure himself from his Creator in the shade of the garden. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. i.

Impalpable
Impa'lpable. adj. [impalpable, Fr. in and palpable.] Not to be perceived by touch.
If beaten into an impalpable powder, when poured out, it will emulate a liquor, by reason that the smallness of the parts do make them easy to be put into motion. Boyle.

Imparadise
To Impáradise. v.a. [imparadisare, Italian.] To put in a place or state resembling paradise in felicity.
 This imparadised neighbourhood made Zelmane's soul cleave unto her, both through the ivory case of her body, and the apparel which did over-cloud it. Sidney, b. ii.
             All my souls be Imparadis'd in you, in whom alone I understand, and grow, and see. Donne.
             Thus these two,  Imparadis'd in one another's arms, The happier Eden, shall enjoy their fill Of bliss on bliss. Milton's Paradise Lost.

Imparity
Impa'rity. n.s. [imparitas, impar, Latin.]

 Inequality; disproportion.
 Some bodies are hard, some soft:  the hardness is  caused chiefly by the jejuneness of the spirits, and their imparity with the tangible parts. Bacon.
 Oddness; indivisibility into equal parts.
 What verity is there in that numeral conceit, in the lateral division of man, by even and odd; and so by parity or imparity of letters in mens names, to determine misfortunes on either side of their bodies? Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Impark


Impart


Improbable
Impro'bable. adj. [improbable, Fr. improbabilis, Lat. in and probable.] Unlikely; incredible.
 This account of party-patches will appear improbable to those who live at a distance from the fashionable world. Addis.

In (composition)
In has commonly in composition a negative or privative sense, as in the Latin: so, active denotes that which acts, inactive that which does not act.  In before r is changed into r; as irregular: before l into l; as illative; and into m before some other consonants; as improbable.

Inactive
Ina'ctive. adj. [in and active.] Not busy; not diligent; idle; indolent; sluggish.

Inchoate
To I'nchoate. v.a. [inchoo, Latin.] To begin; to commence.
It is neither a substance perfect, nor a substance inchoate, or in the way of perfection. Raleigh's Hist. of the World.

Indubitable
Indu'bitable. adj. [indubitabilis, Lat. indubitable, Fr. in and dubitable.] Undoubted; unquestionable.
 When general observations are drawn from so many particulars as to become certain and indubitable, these are jewels of knowledge. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.

Ingeny
Íngeny. n.s. [ingenium, Lat.] Genius; wit. Not in use.
 Whatever of the production of his ingeny comes into foreign parts, is highly valued. Boyle.

Inspissate
To Inspíssate. v.a. [in and spissus, Lat.] To thicken; to make thick.
 Sugar doth inspissate the spirits of the wine, and maketh them not so easy to resolve into vapour. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 This oil farther inspissated by evaporation, turns by degrees into balm. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Integument
Intégument. n.s. [integumentum, intego, Lat.] Any thing that covers or invelops another.
 He could no more live without his frize-coat than without his skin: it is not indeed so properly his coat, as what the anatomists call one of the integuments of the body. Addison.

Intellectual
Intelléctual. n.s. Intellect; understanding; mental powers or faculties. This is little in use.
          Her husband not nigh,Whose higher intellectual more I shun. Milton.
The fancies of most, like the index of a clock, are moved but by the inward springs of the corporeal machine; which, even on the most sublimed intellectual, is dangerously influential. Glanv. Sceps.
I have not consulted the repute of my intellectuals in bringing their weaknesses into such discerning presences. Glanv.

Internecine
Internécine. adj. [internecinus, Latin.] Endeavouring mutual destruction.
 Th' Egyptians worship'd dogs, and for Their faith made internecine war. Hudibras, p. i.

Internecion
Internécion. n.s. [internecion, French; internecio, Latin.] Massacre; slaughter.
 That natural propension of self-love, and natural principle of self-preservation, will necessarily break out into wars and internecions. Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Internuncio
Internúncio. n.s. [internuncius, Latin.] Messenger between two parties.

Interview
Intervíew. n.s. [entrevne, French.] Mutual sight; sight of each other.  It is commonly used for a formal and appointed meeting or conference.
The day will come, when the passions of former enmity being allayed, we shall with ten times redoubled tokens of reconciled love shew ourselves each towards other the same, which Joseph and the brethren of Joseph were at the time of their interview in Egypt. Hooker.
His fears were, that the interview betwixtEngland and France might, through their amity,Breed him some prejudice. Shakesp. Henry VIII.
Such happy interview, and fair eventOf love, and youth not lost, songs, garlands, flow'rs,And charming symphonies, attach'd the heartOf Adam. Milton's Par. Lost, b. xi.

Intestine (adjective)
Intéstine. adj. [intestin, Fr. intestinus, Latin.]

 Internal; inward; not external.
 Of these inward and intestine enemies to prayer, there are our past sins to wounds us, our present cares to distract us, our distempered passions to disorder us, and a whole swarm of loose and floating imaginations to molest us. Duppa.
 Intestine war no more our passions wage, Ev'n giddy factions hear away their rage. Pope.
 Contained in the body.
 Intestine stone, and ulcer, cholick pangs, And moon-struck madness. Milton's Par. Lost, b. xi.
 A wooden jack, which had almost Lost, by disuse, the art to roast, A sudden alteration feels, Increas'd by new intestine wheels. Swift's Miscel.
 Domestick, not foreign. I know not whether the word be properly used in the following example of Shakespeare: perhaps for mortal and intestine should be read mortal internecine.
 Since the mortal and intestine jars 'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us, It hath in solemn synods been decreed, T' admit no traffick to our adverse towns. Shakespeare.
 But God, or Nature, while they thus contend, To these intestine discords put an end. Dryden's Ovid.
 She saw her sons with purple deaths expire, A dreadful series of intestine wars, Inglorious triumphs, and dishonest scars. Pope.

Inustion
Inústion. n.s. [inustio, Lat.] The act of burning.

Inutile
Inútile. adj. [inutile, Fr. inutilis, Lat.] Useless; unprofitable.
 To refer to heat and cold is a compendious and inutile speculation. Bacon's Nat. Hist. №. 839.

Inutility
Inutílity. n.s. [inutilité, Fr. inutilitas, Lat.] Uselessness; unprofitableness.

Invader
Inváder. n.s. [from invado, Latin.]

 One who enters with hostility into the possessions of another.
 The breath of Scotland the Spaniards could not endure; neither durst they, as invaders, land in Ireland. Bacon.
             Their piety In sharp contest of battle found no aid Against invaders. Milton's Paradise Lost.
 That knowledge, like the coal from the altar, serves only to embroil and consume the sacrilegious invaders. Decay of Piety.
     Were he lost, the naked empire Would be a prey expos'd to all invaders. Denham's Sophy.
 The country about Attica was the most barren of any in Greece, through which means it happened that the natives were never expelled by the fury of invaders. Swift.
 Secure, by William's care, let Britain stand; Nor dread the bold invader's hand. Prior.
 Esteem and judgment with strong fancy join, To call the fair invader in; My darling favourite inclination, too, All, all conspiring with the foe. Granville.
 An assailant.

 Encroacher; intruder.
  The substance thereof was formerly comprised in that uncompounded style, but afterwards prudently enlarged for the repelling and preventing heretical invaders. Hammond.

Invent
To Invént. v.a. [inventer, French; invenio, Latin.]

 To discover; to find out; to excogitate; to produce something not made before.
The substance of the service of God, so far forth as it hath in it any thing more than the law of reason doth teach, may not be invented of men, but must be received from God himself. Hooker.
By their count, which lovers books invent,The sphere of Cupid forty years contains. Spenser.
Matter of mirth enough, though there were noneShe could devise, and thousand ways inventTo feed her foolish humour and vain jolliment. Fa. Queen.
Woe to them that invent to themselves instruments of musick. Amos vi. 5.
    We may inventWIth what more forcible we may offendOur enemies. Milton.
In the motion of the bones in their articulations, a twofold liquor is prepared for the inunction of their heads; both which make up the most apt mixture, for this use, that can be invented or thought upon. Ray.
Ye skilful masters of Machaon's race,Who nature's mazy intricacies trace,By manag'd fire and late invented eyes. Blackmore.
But when long time the wretches thoughts refin'd,When want had set an edge upon their mind,Then various cares their working thoughts employ'd,And that which each invented, all enjoy'd. Creech.
The ship by help of a screw, invented by Archimedes, was launched into the water. Arbuthnot.
 To forge; to contrive falsely; to fabricate.
I never did such things as those men have maliciously invented against me. Susan. xliii.
Here is a strange figure invented, against the plain sense of the words. Stillingfleet.
 To feign; to make by the imagination.
I would invent as bitter searching terms,With full as many signs of deadly hate,As lean-fac'd envy in her lothsome cave. Shakespeare.
Hercules's meeting with pleasure and virtue, was invented by Prodicus, who lived before Socrates, and in the first dawnings of philosophy. Addison's Spectator.
 To light on; to meet with.
Far off he wonders what them makes so glad;Or Bacchus' merry fruit they did invent,Or Cybel's frantick rites have made them mad. Spenser.

Inventer
Invénter. n.s. [from inventeur, French.]

 One who produces something new; a deviser of something not known before.
As a translator, he was just; as an inventer, he was rich. Garth.
 A forger.

Invention
Invéntion. n.s. [invention, French; inventio, Latin.]

 Fiction.
O for a muse of fire, that would ascendThe brightest heaven of invention! Shakes. H. V. Prol.
By improving what was writ before,Invention labours less, but judgment more. Roscommon.
Invention is a kind of muse, which, being possessed of the other advantages common to her sisters, and being warmed by the fire of Apollo, is raised higher than the rest. Dryden.
The chief excellence of Virgil is judgment, of Homer is invention. Pope.
 Discovery.
Nature hath provided several glandules to separate this juice from the blood, and no less than four pair of channels to convey it into the mouth, which are of a late invention, and called ductus salivales. Ray on the Creation.
 Excogitation; act of producing something new.
Mine is th' invention of the charming lyre;Sweet notes and heav'nly numbers I inspire. Dryden.
 Forgery.
We hear our bloody cousins, not confessingTheir cruel parricide, filling their hearersWith strange invention. Shakesp. Macbeth.
            If thou can'st accuse,Do it without invention suddenly. Shakesp. Henry VI.
 The thing invented.
The garden, a place not fairer in natural ornaments than artificial inventions. Sidney.
Th' invention all admir'd; and each how heTo be th' inventor miss'd, so easy it seem'dOnce found, which yet unfound most would have thoughtImpossible. Milton's Paradise Lost.

Inventive
Invéntive. adj. [inventif, Fr. from invent.] Quick at contrivance; ready at expedients; having the power of fiction.
Those have the inventivest heads for all purposes, and roundest tongues in all matters. Ascham's Schoolmaster.
As he had an inventive brain, so there never lived any man that believed better thereof, and of himself. Raleigh.
Reason, remembrance, wit, inventive art,No nature, but immortal, can impart. Denham.
                That inventive headHer fatal image from the temple drew,The sleeping guardians of the castle slew. Dryden.
The inventive god, who never fails his part,Inspires the wit, when once he warms the heart. Dryden.

Inventor
Invéntor. n.s. [inventor, Latin.]

 A finder out of something new.
We have the statue of your Columbus, that discovered the West Indies, also the inventor of ships: your Monk, that was the inventor of ordnance, and of gunpowder. Bacon.
            Studious they appearOf arts that polish life; inventors rare,Unmindful of their maker. Milton's Paradise Lost.
Th' invention all admir'd, and each how heTo be the inventor miss'd. Milton.
Why are these positions charged upon me as their sole author and inventor, and the reader led into a belief that they were never before maintained by any person of virtue? Atterb.
 A contriver; a framer; In an ill sense.
In this upshot, purposes mistook,Fall'n on th' inventors heads. Shakes. Hamlet.

Inventress
Invéntress. n.s. [inventrice, Fr. from inventor.] A female that invents.
The arts, with all their retinue of lesser trades, history and tradition tell us when they had their beginning; and how many of their inventors and inventresses were deified. Burnet.
                Cecilia came,Inventress of the vocal frame:The sweet enthusiast, from her sacred store,Enlarg'd the former narrow bounds. Dryden.

Invoice
Ínvoice. n.s. [This word is perhaps corrupted from the French word envoyez, send.] A catalogue of the freight of a ship, or of the articles and price of goods sent by a factor.

Irregular
Irrégular. adj. [irregulier, Fr. irregularis, Latin.]

 Deviating from rule, custom, or nature.
         The am'rous youth Obtain'd of Venus his desire, Howe'er irregular his fire. Prior.
 Immethodical; not confined to any certain rule or order.
 This motion seems excentrique and irregular, yet not well to be resisted or quieted. King Charles.
             Regular Then most, when most irregular they seem. Milton.
 The numbers of pindariques are wild and irregular, and sometimes seem harsh and uncouth. Cowley.
 Not being according to the laws of virtue. A soft word for vitious.

Jabber
To Jábber. v.n. [gabberen, Dutch.] To talk idly; to prate without thinking; to chatter.
We scorn, for want of talk, to jabberOf parties. Swift.

Jabberer
Jábberer. n.s. [from jabber.] One who talks inarticulately or unintelligibly.
Out cant the Babylonian labourersAt all their dialects of jabberers. Hudibras, p. iii.

Jacent
Jácent. adj. [jacens, Latin.] Lying at length.
So laid, they are more apt in swagging down to pierce than in the jacent posture. Wotton's Architect.

Jacinth
Jacínth. n.s. [for hyacinth, as Jerusalem for Hierusalem.]

 The same with hyacinth.

 A gem of a deep redish yellow approaching to a flame colour, or the deepest amber. Woodward's Met. Foss.

Jack
Jack. n.s. [Probably by mistake from Jaques, which in French is James.]

 The diminutive of John. Used as a general term of contempt for saucy or paltry fellows.
                I am in estimation:You will perceive that a Jack gardant cannotOffice me from my son Coriolanus. Shakespeare.
            I have in my mindA thousand raw tricks of these bragging Jacks,Which I will practise. Shakes. Merchant of Venice.
Every Jack slave hath his belly-full of fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that nobody can match. Shakesp.
 The name of instruments which supply the place of a boy, as an instrument to pull off boots.
Foot-boys, who had frequently the common name of jack given them, were kept to turn the spit, or to pull off their masters boots; but when instruments were invented for both those services, they were both called jacks. Watt's Logick.
 An engine which turns the spit.
The excellencies of a good jack are, that the jack frame be forged and filed square; that the wheels be perpendicularly and strongly fixed on the squares of the spindles; that the teeth be evenly cut, and well smoothed; and that the teeth of the worm-wheel fall evenly into the groove of the worm. Moxon.
The ordinary jacks, used for roasting of meat, commonly consist but of three wheels. Wilkin's Math. Magick.
Clocks and jacks, though the screws and teeth be never so smooth, yet, if not oiled, will hardly move. Ray.
A cookmaid, by the fall of a jack weight upon her head, was beaten down. Wiseman's Surgery.
Some strain in rhyme; the muses on their racksScream, like the winding of ten thousand jacks. Pope.
 A young pike.
No fish will thrive in a pond where roach or gudgeons are, except jacks. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 [Jacque, French.] A coat of mail.
The residue were on foot, well furnished with jack and skull, pike, dagger, bucklers made of board, and slicing swords, broad, thin, and of an excellent temper. Hayward.
 A cup of waxed leather.
Dead wine, that stinks of the borrachio, supFrom a foul jack, or greasy mapple cup. Dryden's Pers.
 A small bowl thrown out for a mark to the bowlers.
'Tis as if one should say, that a bowl equally poised, and thrown upon a plain bowling-green, will run necessarily in a direct motion; but if it be made with a byass, that may decline it a little from a straight line, it may acquire a liberty of will, and so run spontaneously to the jack. Bentley's Sermons.
 A part of the musical instrument called a virginal.
In a virginal, as soon as ever the jack falleth, and toucheth the string, the sound ceaseth. Bacon's Natural History.
 The male of animals.
A jack ass, for a stallion, was bought for three thousand two hundred and twenty-nine pounds three shillings and four pence. Arbuthnot on Coins.
 A support to saw wood on. Ainsworth.

 The colours or ensign of a ship. Ainsworth.

 A cunning fellow who can turn to anything.
Jack of all trades, show and sound;An inverse burse, an exchange under ground. Cleaveland.

Jack Boots
Jack Boots. n.s. [from jack, a coat of mail.] Boots which serve as armour to the legs.
A man on horseback, in his breeches and jack boots, dressed up in a commode and a night-rail. Spectator.

Jack by the Hedge
Jack by the Hedge. n.s. An herb.
Jack by the hedge is an herb that grows wild under hedges, is eaten as other sallads are, and much used in broth. Mortim.

Jack Pudding
Jack Pudding. n.s. [jack and pudding.] A zani; a merry Andrew.
Every jack pudding will be ridiculing palpable weaknesses which they ought to cover. L'Estrange.
A buffoon is called by every nation by the the name of the dish they like best: in French jean pottage, and in English jack pudding. Guardian.
Jack pudding, in his party-colour'd jacket,Tosses the glove, and jokes at ev'ry packet. Gay.

Jack with a Lantern
Jack with a Lantern. An ignis fatuus.

Jackal
Jackál. n.s. [chacal, French.] A small animal supposed to start prey for the lyon.
The Belgians tack upon our rear,And raking chase-guns through our sterns they send:Close by their fireships, like jackals, appear,Who on their lions for the prey attend. Dryd. Ann. Mirab.
The mighty lyon, before whom stood the little jackal, the faithful spy of the king of beasts. Arbuth. and Pope's M. Scrib.

Jackalent
Jackalént. n.s. [Jack in Lent, a poor starven fellow.] A simple sheepish fellow.
You little jackalent, have you been true to us?— Ay, I'll be sworn. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.

Jackanapes
Jáckanapes. n.s. [jack and ape.]

 Monkey; an ape.

 A coxcomb; an impertinent.
                        Which is he?— That jackanapes with scarfs. Shakesp.
People wondered how such a young upstart jackanapes should grow so pert and saucy, and take so much upon him. Arbuth.

Jackdaw
Jackdáw. n.s. [jack and daw.] A cock daw; a bird taught to imitate the human voice.
To impose on a child to get by heart a long scroll of phrases, without any ideas, is a practice fitter for a jackdaw than for any thing that wears the shape of man. Watts.

Jacket
Jácket. n.s. [jacquet, French.]

 A short coat; a close waistcoat.
In a blue jacket, with a cross of red. Hubberd's Tale.
And hens, and dogs, and hogs a feeding by;And here a sailor's jacket hangs to dry. Swift.
Jack pudding, in his party-colour'd jacket,Tosses the glove, and jokes at ev'ry packet. Gay.
 To beat one's Jacket, is to beat the man.
She fell upon the jacket of the parson, who stood gaping at her. L'Estrange.

Jacob's Ladder
Jácob's Ladder. n.s. The same with Greek valerian.

Jacob's Staff
Jácob's Staff. n.s.

 A pilgrim's staff.

 Staff concealing a dagger.

 A cross staff; a kind of astrolabe.

Jacobine
Jácobine. n.s. A pidgeon with a high tuft. Ainsworth.

Jactitation
Jactitátion. n.s. [jactito, Latin.] Tossing; motion; restlessness; heaving.
If the patient be surprised with jactitation, or great oppression about the stomach, expect no relief from cordials. Harv.

Jaculation
Jaculátion. n.s. [jaculatio, jaculor, Latin.] The act of throwing missive weapons.
So hills amid' the air encounter'd hills,Hurl'd to and fro with jaculation dire. Milt. Parad. Lost.

Jade (noun 1)
Jade. n.s. [The etymology of this word is doubtful: Skinner derives it from gaad, a goad, or spur.]

 A horse of no spirit; a hired horse; a worthless nag.
Alas, what wights are these that load my heart!I am as dull as Winter-starved sheep,Tir'd as a jade in overloaden cart. Sidney.
When they should endure the bloody spur,They fall their crest, and, like deceitful jades,Sink in the tryal. Shakesp. Julius Cæsar.
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks,With torchstaves in their hand; and their poor jadesLob down their heads, dropping the head and hips. Shakes.
                    To other regionsFrance is a stable, we that dwell in't jades;Therefore to th' war. Shakes. All's well that ends well.
So have I seen with armed heelA wight bestride a commonweal,While still the more he kick'd and spurr'd,The less the sullen jade has stirr'd. Hudibras, p. i.
The plain nag came upon the trial to prove those to be jades that made sport with him. L'Estrange.
False steps but help them to renew their race,As, after stumbling, jades will mend their pace. Pope.
 A sorry woman.  A word of contempt noting sometimes age, but generally vice.
Shall these, these old jades, past the flowerOf youth, that you have, pass you. Chapman's Iliads.
But she, the cunning'st jade alive,Says, 'tis the ready way to thrive,By sharing female bounties. Stepney.
Get in, huffy: now will I personate this young jade, and discover the intrigue. Southerne's Innocent Adultery.
In di'monds, pearl, and rich brocades,She shines the first of batter'd jades,and flutters in her pride. Swift.
 A young woman: in irony and slight contempt.
You see now and then some handsome young jades among them: the sluts have very often white teeth and black eyes. Add.

Jade (noun 2)
Jade. n.s. A species of stone.
The jade is a species of the jasper, and of extreme hardness.  Its colour is composed of a pale blueish grey, or ash-colour, and a pale green, not simple and uniform, but intermixed.  It appears dull and coarse on the surface, but it takes a very elegant and high polish.  It is found in the East Indies, and is much used by the Turks for handles of sabres.  It is so highly esteemed by the Indians as to be called the divine stone: they wear it externally as a remedy for the gravel, and an amulet to preserve them from the bite of venomous animals.  Hill's Materia Medica.

Jade (verb active)
To Jade. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To tire; to harass; to dispirit; to weary.
With his banners, and his well-paid ranks,The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of ParthiaWe've jaded out o' th' field. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleopatra.
It is good in discourse to vary and intermingle speech of the present occasion with arguments; for it is a dull thing to tire and jade any thing too far. Bacon's Essays.
If fleet dragon's progeny at lastProves jaded, and in frequent matches cast,No favour for the stallion we retain,And no respect for the degen'rate strain. Dryden's Juven.
The mind once jaded, by an attempt above its power, is very hardly brought to exert its force again. Locke.
There are seasons when the brain is overtired or jaded with study or thinking; or upon some other accounts animal nature may be languid or cloudy, and unfit to assist the spirit in meditation. Watt's Logick.
 To overbear; to crush; to degrade; to harass, as a horse that is ridden too hard.
                If we live thus tamely,To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,Farewel nobility. Shakespeare's Henry VIII.
 To employ in vile offices.
              The honourable bloodMust not be shed by such a jaded groom. Shakes. Hen. VI.
 To ride; to rule with tyranny.
I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade me; for every reason excites to this. Shakesp. Twelfth Night.

Jade (verb neuter)
To Jade. v.n. To lose spirit; to sink.
Many offer at the effects of friendship, but they do not last: they are promising in the beginning, but they fail and jade and tire in the prosecution. South's Sermons.

Jadish
Jádish. adj. [from jade.]

 Vitious; bad, as an horse.
That hors'd us on their backs, to show usA jadish trick at last, and  throw us. Hudibras, p. iii.
When once the people get the jadish trickOf throwing off their king, no ruler's safe. Southern.
 Unchaste; incontinent.
'Tis to no boot to be jealous of a woman; for if the humour takes her to be jadish, not all the locks and spies in nature can keep her honest. L'Estrange.

Jagg (noun)
Jagg. n.s. [from the verb.] A protuberance or denticulation.
The figure of the leaves is divided into so many jaggs or escallops, and curiously indented round the edges. Ray.
Take off all the staring straws, twigs, and jaggs in the hive, and make them as smooth as possible. Mort. Husbandry.

Jagg (verb)
Jagg. v.a. [gagaw, slits or holes, Welsh.] To cut into indentures; to cut into teeth like those of a saw.
Some leaves are round, some long, some square, and many jagged on the sides. Bacon's Natural History.
The jagging of pinks and gilliflowers is like the inequality of oak-leaves; but they never have any small plain purls. Bac.
The banks of that sea must be jagged and torn by the impetuous assaults, or the silent underminings of waves; violent rains must wash down earth from the tops of mountains. Bentl.
An alder-tree is one among the lesser trees, whose younger branches are soft, and whose leaves are jagged. Watts.

Jaggedness
Jággedness. n.s. [from jagged.] The state of being denticulated; unevenness.
First draw rudely your leaves, making them plain with your coal or lead, before you give them their veins or jaggedness. Peacham on Drawing.

Jaggy
Jággy. adj. [from jagg.] Uneven; denticulated.
His tow'ring crest was glorious to behold;His shoulders and his sides were scal'd with gold;Three tongues he brandish'd when he charg'd his foes;His teeth stood jaggy in three dreadful rows. Addison.
Amid' those angles, infinitely strain'd,They joyful leave their jaggy salts behind. Thoms. Autumn.

Jail
Jail. n.s. [geol, French.] A gaol; a prison; a place where criminals are confined.  See Gaol. It is written either way; but commonly by latter writers jail.
Away with the dotard, to the jail with him. Shakesp.
A dependant upon him paid six pound ready money, which, poor man, he lived to repent in a jail. Clarendon.
He sigh'd and turn'd his eyes, because he knew'Twas but a larger jail he had in view. Dryden.
One jail did all their criminals restrain,Which now the walls of Rome can scarce contain. Dryden.

Jailbird
Jáilbird. n.s. [jail and bird.] One who has been in a jail.

Jailer
Jáiler. n.s. [from jail.] A gaoler; the keeper of a prison.
Seeking many means to speak with her, and ever kept from it, as well because she shunned it, seeing and disdaining his mind, as because of her jealous jailers. Sidney.
This is as a jailer, to bring forthSome monstrous malefactor. Shakes. Ant. and Cleopatra.
His pow'r to hollow caverns is confin'd;There let him reign, the jailer of the wind;With hoarse commands his breathing subjects call,And boast and bluster in his empty hall. Dryden's Æn.
          Palamon, the pris'ner knight,Restless for woe, arose before the light;And with his jailer's leave, desir'd to breatheAn air more wholesome than the damp beneath. Dryden.

Jakes
Jakes. n.s. [Of uncertain etymology.] A house of office.
I will tread this unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the walls of jakes with him. Shakespeare's King Lear.
          Their sordid avarice rakesIn excrements, and hires the very jakes. Dryden's Juvenal.
Some have fished the very jakes for papers left there by men of wit. Swift.

Jalap
Jálap. n.s. [jalap, French; jalapium, low Latin.]
Jalap is a firm and solid root, of a wrinkled surface, and generally cut into slices, heavy and hard to break; of a faintish smell, and of an acrid and nauseous taste.  It was not known in Europe 'till after the discovery of America, and had its name jalapium, or jalapa, from Xalapa, a town in New Spain, in the neighbourhood of which it was discovered; though it is now principally brought from the Madeiras.  It is an excellent purgative in all cases where serous humours are to be evacuated. Hill's Mat. Med.

Jam
Jam. n.s. [I know not whence derived.] A conserve of fruits boiled with sugar and water.

Jamb
Jamb. n.s. [jambe, French.] Any supporter on either side, as the posts of a door.
No timber is to be laid within twelve inches of the foreside of the chimney jambs. Moxon's Mech. Exer.

Jangle (verb active)
To Jángle v.a. To make to sound untuneable.
Now see that noble and that sovereign reason,Like sweet bells jangled out of tune and harsh. Shak. Haml.
'Ere Gothick forms were known in Greece,And in our verse 'ere monkish rhimesHad jangl'd their fantastick chimes. Prior.

Jangle (verb neuter)
To Jángle. v.n. [jangler, French. Skinner.] To altercate; to quarrel; to bicker in words.
Good wits will be jangling; but, gentiles agree,This civil war of wits were much better us'dOn Navarre and his book-men. Shak. Love's Labour Lost.
        So far am I glad it did so sort,As this their jangling I esteem a sport. Shakespeare.
There is no errour which hath not some appearance of probability resembling truth, which when men, who study to be singular, find out, straining reason, they then publish to the world matter of contention and jangling. Raleigh.

Jangler
Jángler. n.s. [from the verb.] A wrangling, chattering, noisy fellow.

Janizary
Jánizary. n.s. [A Turkish word.] One of the guards of the Turkish king.
His grand visier, presuming to investThe chief imperial city of the West,With the first charge compel'd in haste to rise;The standards lost, and janizaries slain,Render the hopes he gave his master vain. Waller.

Jannock
Jánnock. n.s. [probably a corruption of bannock.] Oat-bread. A northern word.

Janty
Jánty. adj. [corrupted from gentil, French.] Showy; fluttering.
This sort of woman is a janty slattern: she hangs on her cloaths, plays her head, and varies her posture. Spectator.

January
Jánuary. n.s. [Januarius, Latin.] The first month of the year, from Janus, to whom it was among the Romans consecrated.
January is clad in white, the colour of the earth at this time, blowing his nails.  This month had the name from Janus, painted with two faces, signifying providence. Peacham.

Japan (noun)
Japán. n.s. [from Japan in Asia, where figured work was originally done.] Work varnished and raised in gold and colours.
The poor girl had broken a large japan glass, of great value, with a stroke of her brush. Swift.

Japan (verb)
To Japán. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To varnish, and embellish with gold and raised figures.
For not the desk with silver nails,Nor bureau of expence,Nor standish well japan'd, availsTo writing of good sense. Swift.
 To black shoes.  A low phrase.
                              The god of fireAmong these gen'rous presents joins his part,And aids with soot the new japanning art. Gay's Trivia.

Japanner
Japánner. n.s. [from japan.]

 One skilled in japan work.

 A shoeblacker.
            The poor have the same itch;They change their weekly barber, weekly news,Prefer a new japanner to their shoes. Pope's Horace.

Jar (noun)
Jar n.s. [from the verb.]

 A kind of rattling vibration of sound.
In r, the tongue is held stifly at its whole length, by the force of the muscles; so as when the impulse of breath strikes upon the end of the tongue, where it finds passage, it shakes and agitates the whole tongue, whereby the sound is affected with a trembling jar. Holder's Elements of Speech.
 Clash; discord; debate.
He maketh war, he maketh peace again,And yet his peace is but continual jar:O miserable men, that to him subject are! Fairy Queen.
Nath'less, my brother, since we passed areUnto this point, we will appease our jar. Hubberd's Tale.
Force would be right; or rather, right and wrong,Between whose endless jar justice presides,Would lose their names, and so would justice too. Shakesp.
 A state in which a door unfastened may strike the post; half opened.
The chaffering with dissenters, and dodging about this or t'other ceremony, is but like opening a few wickets, and leaving them a jar, by which no more than one can get in at a time. Swift.
 [Giarro, Italian.] An earthen vessel.
About the upper part of the jar there appeared a good number of bubbles. Boyle.
He mead for cooling drink prepares,Of virgin honey in the jars. Dryden.
            Warriors welter on the ground,Whilst empty jars the dire defeat resound. Garth.

Jar (verb)
To Jar. v.n. [from eorre, anger, Saxon; or guerre, war, French; or garren, old Teutonick, to clamour.]

 To strike together with a kind of short rattle.
A hollow groan, a murm'ring wind arose;The rings of iron, that on the doors were hung,Sent out of a jarring sound, and harshly rung. Dryden.
My knees tremble with the jarring blow. Gay.
 To strike or sound untuneably.
                      O, you kind gods!Cure this great breach in his abused nature:Th' untun'd and jarring senses, O, wind up,Of this child-changed father. Shakesp. King Lear.
I perceive you delight not in musick.— Not a whit, when it jars so. Shakespeare.
A string may jar in the best master's hand,And the most skilful archer miss his aim. Roscommon.
He keeps his temper'd mind, serene and pure,And every passion aptly harmoniz'dAmid' a jarring world. Thomson's Summer.
 To clash; to interfere; to act in opposition; to be inconsistent.
At last, though long, our jarring notes agree. Shakesp.
                    For orders and degreesJar not with liberty, but well consist. Milt. Parad. Lost.
        Venalus concluded his report:A jarring murmur fill'd the factious court:As when a torrent rolls with rapid force,The flood, constrain'd within a scanty space,Roars horrible. Dryden's Æn.
 To quarrel; to dispute.
When those renowned noble peers of Greece,Through stubborn pride, among themselves did jar,Forgetful of the famous golden fleece,Then Orpheus with his harp their strife did bar. Spenser.
They must be sometimes ignorant of the means conducing to those ends, in which alone they can jar and oppose each other. Dryden's Juvenal, Dedication.

Jardes
Járdes. n.s. [French.] Hard callous tumours in horses, a little below the bending of the ham on the outside.  This distemper in time will make the horse halt, and grow so painful as to cause him to pine away, and become light-bellied.  It is most common to managed horses, that have been kept too much upon their haunches. Farrier's Dict.

Jargon
Járgon. n.s. [jargon, French; gerigonça, Spanish.] Unintelligible talk; gabble; gibberish.
Nothing is clearer than mathematical demonstration, yet let one, who is altogether ignorant in mathematicks, hear it, and he will hold it to be plain fustian or jargon. Bramhall.
From this last toil again what knowledge flows?Just as much, perhaps, as showsThat all his predecessor's rulesWere empty cant, all jargon of the schools. Prior.
During the usurpation an infusion of enthusiastick jargon prevailed in every writing. Swift.

Jargonelle
Járgonelle. n.s. See Pear, of which it is a species.

Jashawk
Jáshawk. n.s. A young hawk. Ainsworth.

Jasmine
Jásmine. n.s. [jasmin, French. It is often pronounced jessamine.]
It hath a funnel-shaped flower, consisting of one leaf, which is cut into several segments at the brim, out of whose cup arises the pointal, which afterward becomes the fruit or pod, which, for the most part, grows double and open lengthwise, discovering the seeds, which are oblong, and have a border round them: these are ranged over each other like slates on a house, and are fastened to the placenta. Miller.
 Thou, like the harmless bee, may'st freely range; From jasmine grove to grove may'st wander. Thomson.

Jasmine Persian
Jásmine Persian. n.s. A plant. See Lilac, of which it is a species.

Jasper
Jásper. n.s. [jaspe, Fr. iaspis, Lat.] A hard stone of a bright beautiful green colour, sometimes clouded with white, found in masses of various sizes and shapes. It is capable of a very elegant polish, and is found in many parts of the East Indies, and in Egypt, Africa, Tartary, and China. Hill's Mat. Med.
 The basis of jasper is usually of a greenish hue, and spotted with red, yellow and white. Woodward's Met. Foss.
 The most valuable pillars about Rome are four columns of oriental jasper in St. Paulina's chapel, and one of transparent oriental jasper in the vatican library. Addison on Italy.

Jaundice
Jáundice. n.s. [jaunisse, jaune, yellow, Fr.] A distemper from obstructions of the glands of the liver, which prevents the gall being duly separated by them from the blood; and sometimes, especially in hard drinkers, they are so indurated as never after to be opened, and straighten the motion of the blood so much through that viscus as to make it divert with a force great enough into the gastrick arteries, which go off from the hepatick, to break through them, and drain into the stomach; so that vomiting of blood, in this distemper, is a fatal symptom. Quincy.
 Why should a man, whose blood is warm within, Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster? Sleep when he wakes, and creep into the jaundice  By being peevish? Shakesp. Merchant of Venice.
 What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks? Shak.
 Those were thy thoughts, and thou couldst judge aright, 'Till int'rest made a jaundice in thy sight. Dryden.
 The eyes of a man in the jaundice make yellow observations on every thing; and the soul, tinctured with any passion, diffuses a false colour over the real appearances of things. Watts's Improvement of the Mind.

Jaundiced
Jáundiced. adj. [from jaundice.] Infected with the jaundice.
 All seems infected, that th' infected spy, As all looks yellow to the jaundic'd eye. Pope.

Jaunt (noun)
Jaunt. n.s. [from the verb.] Ramble; flight; excursion.  It is commonly used ludicrously, but solemnly by Milton.
 Our Saviour meek, and with untroubled mind, After his airy jaunt, though hurry'd sore, Hungry and cold, betook him to his rest. Milt. Par. Reg.
 He sends me out on many a jaunt, Old houses in the night to haunt. Hudibras, p. iii.
 They parted, and away posts the cavalier in quest of his new mistress: his first jaunt is to court. L'Estrange.
 If you are for a merry jaunt, I'll try for once who can foot it farthest. Dryden's Spanish Fryar.
 Thus much of the scheme of my design in this part have I run over, and led my reader a long and tedious jaunt, in tracing out these metallick and mineral bodies. Woodward.

Jaunt (verb)
To  Juant. v.n. [janter, French.] To wander here and there; to bustle about. It is now always used in contempt or levity.
                 I was not made a horse, And yet I bear a burthen like an ass; Spur-gall'd and tir'd by jaunting Bolingbroke. Shak. R. II.

Jauntiness
Jáuntness n.s. [from jaunty, or janty, corrupted from gentil, French. See Janty.] Airyness; flutter; genteelness.
A certain stiffness in my limbs entirely destroyed that jauntiness of air I was once master of. Addison's Spectator.

Javel (noun)
Jável. n.s. [perhaps from the verb.] A wandering fellow.
         When as time, flying with wings swift, Expired had the term that those two javels Should render up a reckoning of their travels. Hubb. Tale.

Javel (verb)
To Jável, or jable. v.a. To bemire; to soil over with dirt through unnecessary traversing and travelling. This word is still retained in Scotland and the northern counties.

Javelin
Jávelin. n.s. [javeline, French.] A spear or half pike, which anciently was used either by foot or horse. It had an iron head pointed.
                 Others, from the wall, defend With dart and jav'lin, stones and sulph'rous fire; On each hand slaughter and gigantick deeds. Milt. Pa. Lost.
 She shakes her myrtle jav'lin; and, behind, Her Lycian quiver dances in the wind. Dryden's Æn.
 Flies the javelin swifter to its mark, Launch'd from the vigour of a Roman arm? Addis. Cato.

Jaw
Jaw. n.s. [joue, a cheek, French; where joowbone, or cheekbone, then jaw.]

 The bone of the mouth in which the teeth are fixed.
 A generation whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor. Prov. xxx. 14.
 The jaw bones, hearts, and galls of pikes are very medicinable. Walton's Angler.
 Piso, who probably speaks Aristotle's meaning, saith that the crocodile doth not only move his upper jaw, but that his nether jaw is immoveable. Grew's Musæum.
 More formidable hydra stands within, Whose jaws with iron teeth severely grin. Dryden's Æn.
 The mouth.
 My tongue cleaveth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. Ps. xxii. 15.
 My bended hook shall pierce their slimy jaws. Shakespeare.
 A smeary foam works o'er my grinding jaws, And utmost anguish shakes my lab'ring frame. Rowe.

Jay
Jay. n.s. [named from his cry. Skinner.] A bird.
                 Two sharp winged sheers, Deck'd with diverse plumes, like painted jays, Were fixed at his back, to cut his airy ways. Fairy Queen.
 We'll use this unwholsome humidity, this gross wat'ry pumpion - we'll teach him to know turtles from jays. Shakes.
 What, is the jay more precious than the lark, Because his feathers are more beautiful? Shakespeare.
 I am highly delighted to see the jay or the thrush hopping about my walks. Spectator.
 Admires the jay, the insects gilded wings, Or hears the hawk, when Philomela sings. Pope.

Jazel
Jázel. n.s. A precious stone of an azure or blue colour. Dict.

Jealous


Jealousy
Jéalousy. n.s. [jalousie, French, from jealous.]

 Suspicion in love.
 But gnawing jealousy, out of their sight Sitting alone, his bitter lips did bite. Fairy Queen.
 The sweet woman leads an ill life with him; he's a very jealousy man. Shakespeare.
 How all the other passions fleet to air, As doubtful thoughts, and rash embrac'd despair; And shudd ring fear, and green-ey'd jealousy! O love, be moderate; allay thy extasy. Shakespeare.
 Why did you suffer Jachimo, Slight thing of Italy, To taint his noble heart and brain With needless jealousy? Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
 Small jealousies, 'tis true, inflame desire; Too great, not fan, but quite blow out the fire. Dryden.
 Suspicious fear.
 The obstinacy in Essex, in refusing to treat with the king, proceeded only from his jealousy, that when the king had got him into his hands, he would take revenge upon him. Clarend.
 Suspicious caution, vigilance, or rivalry.

Jet (noun)


Jocose
Jocóse. adj. [jocosus, Latin.] Merry; waggish; given to jest.
 If the subject be sacred, all ludicrous turns, and jocose or comical airs, should be excluded, lest young minds learn to trifle with the awful solemnities of religion. Watts.

Joke (noun)
Joke. n.s. [jocus, Latin.] A jest; something not serious.
 Link towns to towns with avenues of oak, Inclose whole downs in walls, 'tis all a joke! Inexorable death shall level all. Pope.
 Why should publick mockery in print, or a merry joke upon a stage, be a better test of truth than severe railing sarcasms and publick persecutions? Watt's Improv. of the Mind.

Joke (verb)
To Joke. v.n. [jocor, Latin.] To jest; to be merry in words or actions.
 Our neighbours tell me oft, in joking talk, Of ashes, leather, oat-meal, bran, and chalk. Gay.

Joker
Jóker. n.s. [from joke.] A jester; a merry fellow.
 Thou mad'st thy first appearance in the world like a dry joker, buffoon, or jack-pudding. Dennis.

Journal (adjective)
Jo'urnal. adj. [journale, French; giornale, Italian.] Daily; quotidian. Out of use.
 Now 'gan the golden Phœbus for to steep His fiery face in billows of the West; And his faint steeds water'd in ocean deep, Whilst from their journal labours they did rest. Fa. Queen.
 Ere twice the sun has made his journal greeting To th' under generation, you shall find Your safety manifested. Shakes. Meas. for Measure.
 So sick I am not, yet I am not well; But not so citizen a wanton, as To seem to die ere sick; so, please you, leave me: Stick to your journal course; the breach of custom Is breach of all. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.

Journal (noun)
Jóurnal. n.s. [journal, French; giornale, Italian.]

 A diary; an account kept of daily transactions.
 Edward kept a most judicious journal of all the principal passages of the affairs of his estate. Hayward on Edw. VI.
 Time has destroyed two noble journals of the navigation of Hanno and Hamilcar. Arbuthnot on Coins.
 Any paper published daily.

Justifiable
Jústifiable. adj. [from justify.] Defensible by law or reason; conformable to justice.
 Just are the ways of God, And justifiable to men. Milton's Agonistes.
 Although some animals in the water do carry a justifiable resemblance to some at land, yet are the major part which bear their names unlike. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Justifiableness
Jústifiableness. n.s. [from justifiable.] Rectitude; possibility of being fairly defended.
 Men, jealous of the justifiableness of their doings before God, never think they have human strength enough. King Charles.

Justifiably
Jústifiably. adv. [from justifiable.] Rightly; so as to be supported by right.
 A man may more justifiably throw cross and pile for his opinions, than take them up by such measures. Locke.

Justification
Justificátion. n.s. [justification, French; justificatio, low Latin.]

 Defence; maintenance; vindication; support; absolution from guilt.
 I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this but as an essay of my virtue. Shakesp. King Lear.
 Among theological arguments, in justification of absolute obedience, was one of a singular-nature. Swift.
 Deliverance by pardon from sins past. Clarke.
             In such righteousness To them by faith imputed, they may find Justification towards God, and peace Of conscience. Milton's Parad. Lost, b. xii.
 'Tis the consummation of that former act of faith by this latter, or, in the words of St. Paul and St. James, the consummation of faith by charity and good works, that God accepteth in Christ to justification, and not not the bare aptness of faith to bring forth works, if those works, by the fault of a rebellious infidel, will not be brought forth. Hammond.

Justificator
Justificátor. n.s. [from justify.] One who supports, defends, vindicates, or justifies.

Justifier
Jústifier. n.s. [from justify.] One who justifies; one who defends or absolves; one who frees from sin by pardon.
 That he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. Ro. iii. 26.

Justify
To Jústify. v.a. [justifier, French; justifico, low Latin.]

 To clear from imputed guilt; to absolve from an accusation.
 The law hath judg'd thee, Eleanor; I cannon justify, whom law condemns. Shakes. H. VI.
 They say, behold a man gluttonous, a friend of publicans and sinners; but wisdom is justified with God? Or how can he be clean that is born of a woman? Job xxv. 4.
 There is an exquisite subtilty, and the same is unjust; and there is a wise man that justifieth in judgment. Ecclus. x. 25.
 You're neither justify'd nor yet accus'd. Dryden.
 To maintain; to defend; to vindicate.
 When we began in courteous manner to lay his unkindness unto him, he seeing himself confronted by so many, like a resolute orator, went not to denial, but to justify his cruel falshood. Sidney.
 What she did, whatever in itself, Her doing seem'd to justify the deed. Milt. Par. Lost.
 My unwilling flight the gods inforce, And that must justify our sad divorce. Denham.
 Yet still thy fools shall stand in thy defence, And justify their author's want of sense. Dryden.
 Let others justify their missions as they can, we are sure we can justify that of our fathers by an uninterrupted succession. Atterbury's Sermons.
 To free from past sin by pardon.
 By him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses. Acts xiii.
