Kalendar
Ka'lendar. n.s. [now written calendar.] An account of time.
            Let this pernicious hourStand as accursed in the kalendar. Shakespeare's Macbeth.

Kali
Ka'li. n.s. [an Arabick word.] Sea-weed, of the ashes of which glass was made, whence the word alkali.
The ashes of the weed kali is sold to the Venetians for their glass works. Bacon.

Kam
Kam. adj. Crooked.
Kam, in Erse, is squint-eyed, and applied to any thing awry: clean kam signifies crooked, athwart, awry, cross from the purpose. A-schembo, Italian, hence our English a-kimbo. Clean kam is, by vulgar pronunciation, brought to kim kam.
The blood he hath lost, he dropt it for his country:And what is left, to lose it by his country,Were to us all that do't and suffer it,A brand to th' end o' th' world.— This is clean kam.— Meerly awry. Shakespeare.

Kaw (noun)
Kaw. n.s. [from the verb.] The cry of a raven or crow.
The dastard crow that to the wood made wing,With her loud kaws her craven-kind doth bring,Who, safe in numbers, cuff the noble bird. Dryden.

Kaw (verb)
To Kaw. v.n. [from the sound.] To cry as a raven, crow, or rook. See Caw.
Jack-daws kawing and fluttering about the nests, set all their young ones a gaping; but having nothing in their empty mouths but noise and air, leave them as hungry as before. Locke.

Kayle
Kayle. n.s. [quille, French.]

 Ninepin; kettlepins, of which skittles seem a corruption.
And now at keels they try a harmless chance,And now their cur they try to fetch and dance. Sidney.
The residue of the time they wear out at coits, kayles, or the like idle exercises. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
 A kind of play still retained in Scotland, in which nine holes ranged in three's are made in the ground, and an iron bullet rolled in among them.

Keck
To Keck. v.n. [kecken, Dutch.] To heave the stomach; to reach at vomiting.
All those diets do dry up humours and rheums, which they first attenuate, and while the humour is attenuated it troubleth the body a great deal more; and therefore patients must not keck at them at the first. Bacon's Nat. Hist. № 68.
The faction, is it not notorious?Keck at the memory of glorious. Swift's Miscel.

Keckle a Cable
To Ke'ckle a cable. To defend a cable round with rope. Ainsworth.

Kecksy
Ke'cksy. n.s. [commonly kex, cigue, French; cicuta, Latin. Skinner.] Skinner seems to think kecksy or kex the same as hemlock.  It is used in Staffordshire both for hemlock, and any other hollow jointed plant.
                Nothing teemsBut hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs,Losing both beauty and utility. Shakesp. Henry V.

Kecky
Ke'cky. adj. [from kex.] Resembling a kex.
An Indian sceptre, made of a sort of cane, without any joint, and perfectly round, consisteth of hard and blackish cylinders, mixed with a soft kecky body; so as at the end cut transversly, it looks as a bundle of wires. Grew.

Kedge
To Kedge. v.a. [kaghe, a small vessel, Dutch.]
In bringing a ship up or down a narrow river, when the wind is contrary to the tide, they set the fore-sail, or fore-top-sail and mizzen, and so let her drive with the tide.  The sails are to flat her about, if she comes too near the shore. They also carry out an anchor in the head of the boat, with a hawser that comes from the ship; which anchor, if the ship comes too near the shore, they let fall in the stream, and so wind her head about it; then weigh the anchor again when she is about, which is called kedging, and from this use the anchor a kedger. Harris.

Kedger
Ke'dger. n.s. [from kedge.] A small anchor used in a river. See Kedge.

Kedlack
Ke'dlack. n.s. A weed that grows among corn; charlock. Tusser.

Kee
Kee, the provincial plural of cow, probably kine.
A lass that Cic'ly hight had won his heart,Cic'ly the western lass that tends the kee. Gay's Past.

Keel (noun)
Keel n.s. [cœl, Saxon; kiel, Dutch; quille, Fr.] The bottom of the ship.
                              PortunusHeav'd up his lighten'd keel, and sunk the sand,And steer'd the sacred vessel. Dryden.
Her sharp bill serves for a keel to cut the air before her; her tail she useth as her rudder. Grew's Cosmol. b. i.
Your cables burst, and you must quickly feelThe waves impetuous ent'ring at your keel. Swift.

Keel (verb)
To Keel. v.a. [cælan, Saxon.] This word, which is preserved in Shakespeare, probably signifies to cool, though Hanmer explains it otherwise.
To keel seems to mean to drink so deep as to turn up the bottom of the pot, like turning up the keel of a ship. Hanmer.
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. Shakespeare.

Keelfat
Ke'elfat. n.s. [cœlan, Saxon, to cool, and fat or vat, a vessel.] Cooler; tub in which liquor is let to cool.

Keelhale
To Ke'elhale. v.a. [keel and hale.] To punish in the seamens way, by dragging the criminal under water on one side of the ship and up again on the other.

Keels
Keels, the same with kayles, which see.

Keelson
Ke'elson. n.s. The next piece of timber in a ship to her keel, lying right over it next above the floor timber. Harris.

Keen (adjective)
Keen. adj. [cn, Saxon; kuhn, German; koen, Dutch.]

 Sharp; well edged; not blunt.
              Come thick nightThat my keen knife see not the wound it makes. Shakesp.
        Here is my keen-edged sword,Deck'd with fine flower-de-luces on each side. Shakesp.
To me the cries of fighting fields are charms,Keen be my sabre, and of proof my arms. Dryden.
A sword keen-edg'd within his right he held,The warlike emblem of the conquer'd field. Dryden.
 Severe; piercing.
                        The windsBlow moist, and keen, shattering the graceful locksOf these fair spreading trees; which bids us seekSome better shroud. Milton's Par. Lost, b. x.
The cold was very supportable; but as it changed to the north-west, or north, it became excessively keen. Ellis.
 Eager; vehement.
              Never did I knowA creature, that did bear the shape of man,So keen and greedy to confound a man. Shakespeare.
Keen dispatch of real hunger. Milton.
The sheep were so keen upon the acorns, that they gobbled up a piece of the coat. L'Estrange.
Those curs are so extremely hungry, that they are too keen at the sport, and worry their game. Tatler, № 62
This was a prospect so very inviting, that it could not be easily withstood by any who have so keen an appetite for wealth. Swift's Miscel.
 Acrimonious; bitter of mind.
Good father cardinal, cry thou, amen,To my keen curses. Shakesp. King John.
I have known some of these absent officers as keen against Ireland, as if they had never been indebted to her. Swift.

Keen (verb)
To Keen. v.a. [from the adjective.] To sharpen. An unauthorised word.
Nor when cold Winter keens the brightening flood,Wou'd I weak shivering linger on the brink. Thomson.

Keenly
Ke'enly. adj. [from keen.] Sharply; vehemently; eagerly; bitterly.

Keenness
Ke'enness. n.s. [from keen.]

 Sharpness; edge.
No, not the hangman's ax bears half the keennessOf thy sharp envy. Shakesp. Merchant of Venice.
 Rigor of weather; piercing of cold.

 Asperity; bitterness of mind.
That they might keep up the keenness against the court, till the coming together of both houses, his lordship furnished them with informations, which might be wrested to the king's disadvantage. Clarendon.
The sting of every reproachful speech is the truth of it; and to be conscious is that which gives an edge, and keenness to the invective. South's Sermons.
 Eagerness; vehemence.

Keep (noun)
Keep. n.s. [from the verb.]

 Custody; guard.
Pan, thou god of shepherds all,Which of our lambkins takest keep;And when our flocks into mischance doth fall,Doest save from mischief the unwary sheep. Spenser.
                    The prison strong,Within whose keep the captive knights were laid:Was on partition of the palace-wall. Dryden.
 Guardianship; restraint.
Youth is least looked into when they stand in most need of good keep and regard. Ascham.

Keep (verb active)
To Keep. v.a. [cpan, Saxon; kepen, old Dutch.]

 To retain; not to lose.
I kept the field with the death of some, and flight of others. Sidney, b. ii.
We have examples in the primitive church of such as by fear being compelled to sacrifice to strange gods repented, and kept still the office of preaching the gospel. Whitgift.
Keep in memory what I preached unto you. 1 Cor. xv. 2.
This charge I keep till my appointed dayOf rend'ring up. Milton.
His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal. Milton.
You have lost a child; but you have kept one child, and are likely to do so long. Temple's Miscel.
If we would weigh, and keep in our minds, what we are considering, that would instruct us when we should, or should not, branch into distinctions. Locke.
 To have in custody.
The crown of Stephanus, first king of Hungary, was always kept in the castle of Vicegrade. Knolles.
She kept the fatal key. Milton.
 To preserve; not to let go.
These men of war that could keep rank, came with a perfect heart to Hebron. 1 Chron. xii. 38.
The Lord God merciful and gracious, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity. Exod. xxxiv. 7.
I spared it greatly, and have kept me a grape of the cluster, and a plant of a great people. 2 Esdr. ix. 21.
 To preserve in a state of security.
We passed by where the duke keeps his gallies. Addison.
 To protect; to guard.
Behold I am with thee to keep thee. Gen. xxviii.
 To guard from flight.
Paul dwelt with a soldier that kept him. Acts xxviii. 16.
 To detain.
But what's the cause that keeps you here with me?— That I may know what keeps me here with you. Dryden.
 To hold for another.
A man delivers money or stuff to keep. Exod. xxii. 7.
Reserv'd from night, and kept for thee in store. Milton.
 To reserve; to conceal.
Some are so close and reserved, as they will not shew their wares but by a dark light; and seem always to keep back somewhat. Bacon's Essays, № 27.
 To tend.
God put him in the garden of Eden to keep it. Gen. ii. 15.
While in her girlish age she kept sheep on the moor, it chanced that a merchant saw and liked her. Carew.
                      Count it thineTo till and keep, and of the fruit to eat. Milton.
 To preserve in the same tenour or state.
To know the true state, I will keep this order. Bacon.
Take this at least, this last advice my son,Keep a stiff rein, and move but gently on:The coursers of themselves will run too fast,Your art must be to moderate their haste. Addison's Ovid.
 To regard; to attend.
While the stars and course of heav'n I keep,My weary'd eyes were seiz'd with fatal sleep. Dryden.
If that idea be steadily kept to, the distinction will easily be conceived. Locke.
 To not suffer to fail.
My mercy will I keep for him for ever. Psal. lxxxix.
Shall truth fail to keep her word? Milton.
 To hold in any state.
Ingenuous shame, and the apprehensions of displeasure, are the only true restraints: these alone ought to hold the reins, and keep the child in order. Locke on Education.
Men are guilty of many faults in the exercise of this faculty of the mind, which keep them in ignorance. Locke.
Happy souls! who keep such a sacred dominion over their inferior and animal powers, that the sensitive tumults never rise to disturb the superior and better operations of the reasoning mind. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.
 To retain by some degree of force in any place or state.
Plexirtus, said he, this wickedness is found by thee; no good deeds of mine have been able to keep it down in thee. Sidney, b. ii.
It is hardly to be thought that any governor should so much malign his successor, as to suffer an evil to grow up which he might timely have kept under; or perhaps nourish it with coloured countenance of such sinister means. Spenser.
What old acquaintance! could not all this fleshKeep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewel. Shakespeare.
Venus took the guard of noble Hector's corse,And kept the dogs off: night and day applying sovereign forceOf rosy balms, that to the dogs were horrible in taste. Chapman's Iliad.
The Chinese sail where they will; which sheweth that their law of keeping out strangers is a law of pusillanimity and fear. Bacon's New Atlantis.
And those that cannot live from him asunder,Ungratefully shall strive to keep him under. Milton.
If any ask me what wou'd satisfy,To make life easy, thus I would reply:As much as keeps out hunger, thirst, and cold. Dryden.
Matters, recommended by our passions, take possession of our minds, and will not be kept out. Locke.
Prohibited commodities should be kept out, and useless ones impoverish us by being brought in. Locke.
An officer with one of these unbecoming qualities, is looked upon as a proper person to keep off impertinence and solicitation from his superior. Addison's Spectator.
And if two boots keep out the weather,What need you have two hides of leather. Prior.
We have it in our power to keep in our breaths, and to suspend the efficacy of this natural function. Cheyne.
 To continue any state or action.
The house of Ahaziah had no power to keep still the kingdom. 2 Chron. xxii. 9.
Men gave ear, waited, and kept silence at my counsel. Job xxix. 21.
Auria made no stay, but still kept on his course, and with a fair gale came directly towards Carone. Knolles.
It was then such a calm, that the ships were not able to keep way with the gallies. Knolles's Hist. of the Turks.
The moon that distance keeps till night. Milton.
An heap of ants on a hillock will more easily be kept to an uniformity in motion than these. Glanville's Scep.
                He dy'd in fight:Fought next my person, as in consort fought:Kept pace for pace, and blow for blow. Dryden.
He, being come to the estate, keeps on a very busy family; the markets are weekly frequented, and the commodities of his farm carried out and sold. Locke.
Invading foes, without resistance,With ease I make to keep their distance. Swift.
 To preserve in any state.
My son, keep the flower of thine age sound. Ecclus. xxvi.
 To practise; to use habitually.
I rule the family very ill, and keep bad hours. Pope.
 To copy carefully.
Her servants eyes were fix'd upon her face,And as she mov'd or turn'd, her motions view'd,Her measures kept, and step by step pursu'd. Dryden.
 To observe any time.
This shall be for a memorial; and you shall keep it a feast to the Lord. Exod. xii. 14.
That day was not in silence holy kept. Milton.
 To observe; not to violate.
                                  It cannot be,The king should keep his word in loving us;He will suspect us still, and find a timeTo punish this offence in other faults. Shakespeare.
Sworn for three years term to live with me,My fellow scholars; and to keep those statutesThat are recorded in this schedule here. Shakespeare.
Lord God, there is none like thee: who keepest covenant and mercy with thy servants. 1 Kings viii. 23.
Lord God of Israel, keep with thy servant that thou promisedst him. 1 Kings viii. 25.
Obey and keep his great command. Milton.
His promise Palamon accepts; but pray'dTo keep it better than the first he made. Dryden.
My debtors do not keep their day,Deny their hands and then refuse to pay. Dryden's Juv.
                          My wishes are,That Ptolemy may keep his royal word. Dryden.
 To maintain; to support with necessaries of life.
Much more affliction than already feltThey cannot well impose, nor I sustain,If they intend advantage of my labours,The work of many hands, which earns my keeping. Milt.
 To have in the house.
Base tyke, call'st thou me host? I scorn the term; nor shall my Nell keep lodgers. Shakespeare's Henry V.
 Not to intermit.
Keep a sure watch over a shameless daughter, lest she make thee a laughing-stock to thine enemies, and a bye-word in the city. Ecclus. xli. 11.
Not keeping strictest watch as she was warn'd. Milton.
 To maintain; to hold.
They were honourably brought to London, where every one of them kept house by himself. Hayward.
Twelve Spartan virgins, noble, young, and fair,To the pompous palace did resort,Where Menelaus kept his royal court. Dryden.
 To remain in; not to leave a place.
I pry'thee, tell me, doth he keep his bed. Shakespeare.
 Not to reveal; not to betray.
A fool cannot keep counsel. Ecclus. viii. 17.
Great are thy virtues, though kept from man. Milton.
If he were wise, he would keep all this to himself. Tillots.
 To restrain; to with-hold.
If any rebel or vain spirit of mineDid, with the least affection of a welcome,Give entertainment to the might of it;Let heav'n for ever keep it from my head. Shakespeare.
Some obscure passages in the inspir'd volume keep from the knowledge of divine mysteries. Boyle on Scripture.
If the God of this world did not blind their eyes, it would be impossible, so long as men love themselves, to keep them from being religious. Tillotson's Sermons.
There is no virtue children should be excited to, nor fault they should be kept from, which they may not be convinced of by reasons. Locke on Education.
If a child be constantly kept from drinking cold liquor whilst he is hot, the custom of forbearing will preserve him. Locke.
By this they may keep them from little faults. Locke.
 To debar from any place.
Ill senc'd for heav'n to keep out such a foe. Milton.
 To Keep back. To reserve; to with-hold.
Whatsoever the Lord shall answer, I will declare: I will keep nothing back from you. Jer. xlii. 4.
 To Keep back. To with-hold; to restrain.
Keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins. Psal. xix.
 To Keep company. To frequent any one; to accompany.
Heav'n doth know, so shall the world perceive,That I have turn'd away from my former self,So will I those that kept me company. Shakesp. Henry IV.
Why should he call her whore? Who keeps her company?What place? what time? Shakesp. Othello.
What mean'st thou, bride! this company to keep?To sit up, till thou fain would sleep? Donne.
          Neither will I wretched theeIn death forsake, but keep thee company. Dryden.
 To Keep company with. To have familiar intercourse.
A virtuous woman is obliged not only to avoid immodesty, but the appearance of it; and she could not approve of a young woman keeping company with men, without the permission of father or mother. Broome's Notes on the Odyssey.
 To Keep in.  To conceal; not to tell.
I perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty, that you will not extort from me what I am willing to keep in. Shak.
Syphax, your zeal becomes importunate:I've hitherto permitted it to rave,And talk at large, but learn to keep it in,Lest it should take more freedom than I'll give it. Addison.
 To Keep in. To restrain; to curb.
If thy daughter be shameless, keep her in straightly, lest she abuse herself through over-much liberty. Ecclus. xxvi. 13.
It will teach them to keep in, and so master their inclinations. Locke on Education.
 To Keep off. To bear to distance; not to admit.

 To Keep off. To hinder.
A superficial reading, accompanied with the common opinion of his invincible obscurity, has kept off some from seeking in him the coherence of his discourse. Locke.
 To Keep up. To maintain without abatement.
Land kept up its price, and sold for more years purchase than corresponded to the interest of money. Locke.
This restraint of their tongues will keep up in them the respect and reverence due to their parents. Locke.
Albano keeps up its credit still for wine. Addison.
This dangerous dissension among us we keep up and cherish with much pains. Addison's Freeholder, № 34.
The ancients were careful to coin money in due weight and fineness, and keep it up to the standard. Arbuthnot.
 To Keep up. To continue; to hinder from ceasing.
You have enough to keep you alive, and to keep up and improve your hopes of heaven. Taylor's holy living.
In joy, that which keeps up the action is the desire to continue it. Locke.
Young heirs, from their own reflecting upon the estates they are born to, are of no use but to keep up their families, and transmit their land and houses in a line to posterity. Addison's Spect. № 123.
During his studies and travels he kept up a punctual correspondence with Eudoxus. Addison.
 To Keep under. To oppress; to subdue.
O happy mixture! whereby things contrary do so qualify and correct the one the danger of the other's excess, that neither boldness can make us presume, as long as we are kept under with the sense of our own wretchedness; nor, while we trust in the mercy of God through Christ Jesus, fear be able to tyrannize over us. Hooker, b. v.
Truth may be smothered a long time, and kept under by violence; but it will break out at last. Stillingfleet.
To live like those that have their hope in another life, implies, that we keep under our appetites, and do not let them loose into the enjoyments of sense. Atterbury's Sermons.

Keep (verb neuter)
To Keep. v.n.

 To remain by some labour or effort in a certain state.
With all our force we kept aloof to sea,And gain'd the island where our vessels lay. Pope's Odys.
A man that cannot fence will keep out of bullies and gamesters company. Locke on Education.
 To continue in any place or state; to stay.
She would give her a lesson for walking so late, that should make her keep within doors for one fortnight. Sidney.
What! keep a week away? seven days and nights?Eightscore hours? and lovers absent hours.Oh weary reckoning. Shakespeare's Othello.
              I think, it is our way,If we will keep in favour with the king,To be her men, and wear her livery. Shakesp. Rich. III.
Thou shalt keep fast by my young men, until they have ended. Ruth ii. 21.
The necessity of keeping well with the maritime powers, will persuade them to follow our measures. Temple.
On my better hand Ascanius hung,And with unequal paces tript along:Creusa kept behind. Dryden's Æneis.
                    The goddess born in secret pin'd;Nor visited the camp, nor in the council join'd;But keeping close, his gnawing heart he fedWith hopes of vengeance. Dryden's Homer.
And while it keeps there, it keeps within our author's limitation. Locke.
There are cases in which a man must guard, if he intends to keep fair with the world, and turn the penny. Collier.
The endeavours Achilles used to meet with Hector, the contrary endeavours of the Trojan to keep out of reach are the intrigue. Pope's View of Epick Poetry.
 To remain unhurt; to last.
Disdain me not, although I be not fair:Doth beauty keep which never sun can burn,Nor storms do turn? Sidney, b. i.
Grapes will keep in a vessel half full of wine, so that the grapes touch not the wine. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
If the malt be not thoroughly dried, the ale it makes will not keep. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 To dwell; to live constantly.
                    A breath thou art,Servile to all the skiey influences,That do this habitation, where thou keepst,Hourly afflict. Shakesp. Measure for Measure.
Knock at the study, where, they say, he keeps,To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge. Shakespeare.
 To adhere strictly.
Did they keep to one constant dress they would sometimes be in fashion, which they never are. Addison's Spect.
It is so whilst we keep to our rule; but when we forsake that, we go astray. Baker's Reflections on Learning.
 To Keep on. To go forward.
So chearfully he took the doom;Nor shrunk, nor stept from death,But, with unalter'd pace, kept on. Dryden.
 To Keep up. To continue undismayed.
He grew sick of a consumption; yet he still kept up, that he might free his country. Dryden's Life of Cleomenes.
 The general idea of this word is care, continuance, or duration.

Keeper
Ke’eper. n.s. [from keep.]

 One who holds any thing for the use of another.
The good old man having neither reason to dissuade, nor hopes to persuade, received the things with the mind of a keeper, not of an owner. Sidney.
 One who has prisoners in custody.
The keeper of the prison, call to him. Shakespeare.
                      Io nowWith horns exalted stands, and seems to lowe:A noble charge; her keeper by her sideTo watch her walks his hundred eyes apply'd. Dryden.
A pleasant beverage he prepar'd before,Of wine and water mix'd, with added storeOf opium; to his keeper this he brought,Who swallowed unaware the sleepy draught. Dryden.
 One who has the care of parks, or beasts of chase.
There is an old tale goes, that Herne the hunter,Sometime a keeper here in Windsor forest,Doth all the Winter-time, at still of midnight,Walk round about an oak with ragged horns. Shakesp.
The first fat buck of all the season's sent,And keeper takes no fee in compliment. Dryden.
 One that has the superintendence or care of any thing.
Hilkiah went unto Hildah, keeper of the wardrobe. 2 King.

Keeper of the Great Seal
Ke'eper of the great seal. [cullos magni sigilli, Latin.] Is a lord by his office, and called lord keeper of the great seal of England, &c. and is of the king's privy-council, under whose hands pass all charters, commissions, and grants of the king, strengthened by the great or broad seal, without which seal all such instruments by law are of no force; for the king is, in interpretation and intendment of law, a corporation, and therefore passeth nothing firmly, but under the great seal. This lord keeper, by the statute of 5 Eliz. c. 18. hath the like jurisdiction, and all other advantages, as hath the lord chancellor of England. Cowell.

Keepership
Ke'epership. n.s. [from keeper.] Office of a keeper.
The common goal of the shire is kept at Launceston: this keepership is annexed to the constableship of the castle. Carew's Survey of Cornwell.

Keg
Keg. n.s. [caque, French.] A small barrel, commonly used for a fish barrel.

Kell (1)
Kell. n.s. A sort of pottage. Ains. It is so called in Scotland, being a soupe made with shreded greens.

Kell (2)
Kell. n.s. The omentum; that which inwraps the guts.
The very weight of bowels and kell, in fat people, is the occasion of a rupture. Wiseman's Surgery.

Kelp
Kelp. n.s. A salt produced from calcined sea-weed.
In making alum, the workmen use the ashes of a sea-weed called kelp, and urine. Boyle on Colours.

Kelson
Ke'lson. n.s. [more properly keelson.] The wood next the keel.
We have added close pillars in the royal ships, which being fastened from the kelson to the beams of the second deck, keep them from settling, or giving way. Raleigh.

Kelter
Ke'lter. n.s. [He is not in kelter, that is, he is not ready; from kilter, to gird, Danish. Skinner.]

Kemb
To Kemb. v.a. [cœmban, Saxon; kammen, German: now written, perhaps less properly, to comb.] To separate or disentangle by a denticulated instrument.
Yet are the men more loose than they,More kemb'd and bath'd, and rubb'd and trim'd,More sleek. Benj. Johnson.
            Thy head and hair are sleek;And then thou kemb'st the tuzzes on thy cheek. Dryden.

Ken (noun)
Ken. n.s. [from the verb.] View; reach of sight.
Lo! within a ken, our army lies. Shakesp. Henry IV.
When from the mountain top Pisanio shew'd thee,Thou wast within a ken. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
                                It was a hillOf paradise the highest; from whose topThe hemisphere of earth, in clearest ken,Stretch'd out to th' amplest reach of prospect, lay. Milton.
                            He soonSaw within ken a glorious angel stand. Milton.
Rude, as their ships, was navigation then;No useful compass or meridian known:Coasting they kept the land within their ken,And knew the North but when the pole-star shone. Dryden.
When we consider the reasons we have to think, that what lies within our ken is but a small part of the universe, we shall discover an huge abyss of ignorance. Locke.

Ken (verb)
To Ken. v.a. [cnnan, Saxon; kennan, Dutch, to know.]

 To see at a distance; to descry.
At once as far as angels ken, he viewsThe dismal situation, waste and wild. Milton's Par. Lost.
The next day about evening we saw, within a kenning, before us thick clouds, which did put us in some hope of land. Bacon's New Atlantis.
            If thou ken'st from far,Among the Pleiads, a new-kindled star;'Tis she that shines in that propitious light. Dryden.
We ken them from afar, the setting sunPlays on their shining arms. Addison.
 To know.
'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gate. Shakesp.
Now plain I ken whence love his rise begun:Sure he was born some bloody butcher's son,Bred up in shambles. Gay's Past.

Kennel (noun)
Ke'nnel. n.s. [chenil, French.]

 A cot for dogs.
A dog sure, if he could speak, had wit enough to describe his kennel. Sidney.
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath creptA hell-hound, that doth hunt us all to death. Shakesp.
The seditious remain within their station, which, by reason of the nastiness of the beastly multitude, might be more fitly termed a kennel than a camp. Hayward.
 A number of dogs kept in a kennel.
A little herd of England's tim'rous deer,Maz'd with a yelping kennel of French curs. Shakespeare.
 The hole of a fox, or other beast.

 [Kennel, Dutch; chenal, Fr. canalis, Latin.] The watercourse of a street.
Bad humours gather to a bile; or, as divers kennels flow to one sink, so in short time their numbers increased. Hayw.
He always came in so dirty, as if he had been dragged through the kennel at a boarding-school. Arbuthnot.

Kennel (verb)
To Ke'nnel. v.n. [from kennel.] To lie; to dwell: used of beasts, and of man in contempt.
Yet, when they list, would creep,If ought disturb'd their noise, into her womb,And kennel there; yet there still bark'd and howl'dWithin, unseen. Milton's Par. Lost, b. ii.
The dog kennelled in a hollow tree, and the cock roosted upon the boughs. L'Estrange's Fables.

Kept
Kept. pret. and part. pass. of keep.

Kercheif
Kerche'if. n.s. [covrecheif, Chaucer; couvre, to cover, and chef, the head; and hence a handkercheif to wipe the face or hands.]

 A head dress.
I see how thine eye would emulate the diamond; thou hast the right arched bent of the brow, that becomes the tire vailant.— A plain kerchief, Sir John; my brows become nothing else. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
The proudest kerchief of the court shall restWell satisfy'd of what they love the best. Dryden.
 Any cloath used in dress.
O! what a time have you chose out, brave Caius,To wear a kerchief. Shakesp. Julius Cæsar.
Every man had a large kercheif folded about the neck. Hayward.

Kercheifed
Kerche'ifed.Kerche'ift.

adj. [from kercheif.] Dressed; hooded.


                    The evening comesKercheift in a comely cloud,While racking winds are piping loud. Milton.

Kercheift
Kerche'ifed.Kerche'ift.

adj. [from kercheif.] Dressed; hooded.


                    The evening comesKercheift in a comely cloud,While racking winds are piping loud. Milton.

Kerf
Kerf. n.s. [coꞃꝼan, Saxon, to cut.]
The sawn-away slit between two pieces of stuff is called a kerf. Moxon's Mech. Exercise.

Kermes
Ke'rmes. n.s.
Kermes is a roundish body, of the bigness of a pea, and of a brownish red colour, covered when most perfect with a purplish grey dust.  It contains a multitude of little distinct granules, soft, and when crushed yield a scarlet juice.  It is found adhering to a kind of holm oak, and till lately was generally understood to be a vegetable excrescence; but we now know it to be the extended body of an animal parent, filled with a numerous offspring, which are the little red granules. Hill.

Kern (noun 1)
Kern. n.s. [an Irish word.] Irish foot soldier; an Irish boor.
Out of the fry of these rake-hell horseboys, growing up in knavery and villainy, are their kearn supplied. Spenser.
No sooner justice had with valour arm'd,Compell'd these skipping kernes to trust their heels,But the Norweyan lord, surveying advantage,Began a fresh assault. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
If in good plight these Northern kerns arrive,Then does fortune promise fair. Philip's Briton.

Kern (noun 2)
Kern. n.s. A hand-mill consisting of two pieces of stone, by which corn is ground.  It is still used in some parts of Scotland.

Kern (verb)
To Kern. v.n. [probably from kernel, or, by change of a vowel, corrupted from corn.]

 To harden as ripened corn.
When the price of corn falleth, men break no more ground than will supply their own turn, wherethrough it falleth out than an ill kerned or saved harvest soon emptieth their old store. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
 To take the form of grains; to granulate.
The principal knack is in making the juice, when sufficiently boiled, to kern or granulate. Grew.

Kernel (noun)
Ke'rnel. n.s. [cẏꞃnl, a gland, Saxon; karne, Dutch; cerneau, French.]

 The edible substance contained in a shell.
            As brown in hueAs hazle nuts, and sweeter than the kernels. Shakespeare.
There can be no kernel in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes. Shakesp. All's well that ends well.
The kernel of the nut serves them for bread and meat, and the shells for cups. More.
 Any thing included in a husk or integument.
The kernel of a grape, the fig's small grain,Can cloath a mountain, and o'ershade a plain. Denham.
Oats are ripe when the straw turns yellow and the kernel hard. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 The seeds of pulpy fruits.
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket, and give it his son for an apple. — And sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring forth more islands. Shakes. Tempest.
The apple inclosed in wax was as fresh as at the first putting in, and the kernels continued white. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 The central part of any thing upon which the ambient strata are concreted.
A solid body in the bladder makes the kernel of a stone. Arb.
 Knobby concretions in childrens flesh.

Kernel (verb)
To Ke'rnel. v.n. [from the noun.] To ripen to kernels.
In Staffordshire, garden-rouncivals sown in the fields kernel well, and yield a good increase. Mortimer's Husbandry.

Kernelly
Ke'rnelly. adj. [from kernel.] Full of kernels; having the quality or resemblance of kernels.

Kernelwort
Ke'rnelwort. n.s. An herb. Ainsworth.

Kersey
Ke'rsey. n.s. [karsaye, Dutch; carisée, French.] Coarse stuff.
Taffata phrases, silken terms precise,I do forswear them; and I here protest,Henceforth my wooing mind shall be exprestIn russet yeas, and honest kersey noes. Shakespeare.
His lackey with a linnen stock on one leg, and a kersey boot-hose on the other. Shakes. Taming of the Shrew.
The same wool one man felts it into a hat, another weaves it into cloth, and another into kersey or serge. Hale.
    Thy kersey doublet spreading wide,Drew Cic'ly's eye aside. Gay.

Kest
Kest. The preter tense of cast. It is still used in Scotland.
Only that noise heav'ns rolling circles kest. Fairfax.

Kestrel
Ke'strel. n.s. A little kind of bastard hawk. Hanmer.
            In his kestrel kind,A pleasing vein of glory, vain did find,To which his flowing tongue, and troublous sprit,Gave him great aid. Fairy Queen.
Kites and kestrels have a resemblance with hawks. Bacon.

Ketch
Ketch. n.s. [from caicchio, Italian, a barrel.] A heavy ship.
                I wonderThat such a ketch can with his very bulkTake up the rays o' th' beneficial sun,And keep it from the earth. Shak. Henry VIII.

Kettle
Ke'ttle. n.s. [cꞇl, Saxon; ketel, Dutch.] A vessel in which liquor is boiled.  In the kitchen the name of pot is given to the boiler that grows narrower towards the top, and of kettle to that which grows wider.  In authors they are confounded.
The fire thus form'd, she sets the kettle on;Like burnish'd gold the little seether shone. Dryden.

Kettledrum
Ke'ttledrum. n.s. [kettle and drum.] A drum of which the head is spread over a body of brass.
As he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray outThe  triumph of his pledge. Shakesp. Hamlet.

Key
Key. n.s. [cœᵹ, Saxon.]

 An instrument formed with cavities correspondent to the wards of a lock, by which the bolt of a lock is pushed forward or backward.
 If a man were porter of hellgate, he should have old turning the key. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 Fortune, that arrant whore, Ne'er turns the key to th' poor. Shak. King Lear.
 Poor key cold figure of a holy king! Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster. Shakes. Rich. III.
 The glorious standard last to heav'n they spread, With Peter's keys ennobled and his crown. Fairfax.
 Yet some there be, that by due steps aspire To lay their just hands on that golden key, That opes the palace of eternity. Milton.
 Conscience is its own counsellor, the sole master of its own secrets; and it is the privilege of our nature, that every man should keep the key of his own breast. South's Sermons.
 He came, and knocking thrice, without delay The longing lady heard, and turn'd the key. Dryden.
 I keep her in one room, I lock it; The key, look here, is in this pocket. Prior.
 An instrument by which something is screwed or turned.
 Hide the key of the jack. Swift.
 An explanation of any thing difficult.
 An emblem without a key to 't, is no more than a tale of a tub. L'Estrange.
 These notions, in the writings of the ancients darkly delivered, receive a clearer light when compared with this theory, which represents every thing plainly, and is a key to their thoughts. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
Those who are accustomed to reason have got the true key of books. Locke.
 The parts of a musical instrument which are struck with the fingers.
 Pamela loves to handle the spinnet, and touch the keys. Pam.
 [In musick.] Is a certain tone whereto every composition, whether long or short, ought to be fitted; and this key is said to be either flat or sharp, not in respect of its own nature, but with relation to the flat or sharp third, which is joined with it. Harris.
 Hippolita, I woo'd thee with my sword, And won thy love, doing thee injuries; But I will wed thee in another key, With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling. Shakesp.
 But speak you with a sad brow? Or do you play the flouting Jack? Come, in what key shall a man take you to go in the song? Shak. Much Ado about Nothing.
 Not know my voice! Oh, time's extremity! Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue In sev'n short years, that here my only son Knows not my feeble key of untun'd cares? Shakespeare.
 [Kaye, Dutch; quai, French.] A bank raised perpendicular for the ease of lading and unlading ships.
 A key of fire ran along the shore, And lighten'd all the river with a blaze. Dryden.

Keyage
Ke'yage. n.s. [from key.] Money paid for lying at the key. Ainsworth.

Keyhole


Keystone


Kibe
Kibe. n.s. [from kerb, a cut, German, Skinner; from kibwe, Welsh, Minshew.] An ulcerated chilblain; a chap in the heel caused by the cold.
 If 'twere a kibe, 'twould put me to my slipper. Shakesp.
 The toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of our courtier, that it galls his kibe. Shakespeare's Hamlet.
 One boast of the cure, calling them a few kibes. Wiseman.

Kibed
Ki'bed. adj. [from kibe.] Troubled with kibes: as kibed heels.

Kick (noun)


Kick (verb active)


Kick (verb neuter)


Kid (noun)
Kid. n.s. [kid, Danish.]

 The young of a goat.
 Leaping like wanton kids in pleasant spring. Fa. Queen.
 There was a herd of goats with their young ones, upon which sight sir Richard Graham tells, he would snap one of the kids, and carry him close to their lodging. Wotton.
 Sporting the lion ramp'd, and in his paw Dandled the kid. Milton.
 So kids and whelps their sires and dams express; And so the great I measur'd by the less. Dryden's Virgil.
 [From cidwlen, Welsh, a faggot.] A bundle of heath or furze.

Kid (verb)
To Kid. v.a. [from the noun.] To bring forth kids.

Kidder
Ki'dder. n.s. An ingrosser of corn to enhance its price. Ains.

Kidney
Ki'dney. n.s. [Etymology unknown.]

 These are two in number, one on each side: they have the same figure as kidneybeans: their length is four or five fingers, their breadth three, and their thickness two: the right is under the liver, and the left under the spleen.  The use of the kidneys is to separate the urine from the blood, which, by the motion of the heart and arteries, is thrust into the emulgent branches, which carry it to the little glands, by which the serosity being separated, is received by the orifice of the little tubes, which go from the glands to the pelvis, and from thence it runs by the ureters into the bladder. Quincy.
 A youth laboured under a complication of diseases, from his mesentery and kidneys. Wiseman's Surgery.
 Race; kind: in ludicrous language.
 Think of that, a man of my kidney; think of that, that am as subject to heat as butter; a man of continual dissolution and thaw. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
 There are millions in the world of this man's kidney, that take up the same resolution without noise. L'Estrange.

Kidneybean
Ki'dneybean. n.s. [so named from its shape.]
It hath a papilionaceous flower, out of whose empalement rises the pointal, which becomes a long pod, inclosing several seeds, which are shaped almost like a kidney. it has pinnated leaves, consisting of an unequal number of lobes. Miller.
 Kidneybeans are a sort of cod ware, that are very pleasant wholesome food. Mortimer's Husbandry.

Kine
Kine n.s. plur. from cow.
To milk the kine,E'er the milk-maid fineHath open'd her eyne. Ben. Johnson.
A field I went, amid' the morning dew,To milk my kine. Gay.

King (noun)
King. n.s. [A contraction of the Teutonick word cuning, or cyning, the name of sovereign dignity.  In the primitive tongue it signifies stout or valiant, the kings of most nations being, in the beginning, chosen by the people on account of their valour and strength. Verstegan.]

 Monarch; supreme governour.
 The great king of kings, Hath in the table of his law commanded, That thou shalt do no murder. Shakes. R. III.
A substitute shines brightly as a king, Until a king be by; and then his state Empties itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters. Shak. Merch. of Venice.
 True hope is swift, and flies with swallows wings; Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings. Shakesp.
 The king becoming graces, As justice, verity, temp'rance, stableness, Bounty, persev'rance, mercy, lowliness, Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude, I have no relish of them. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 Thus states were form'd; the name of king unknown, 'Till common int'rest plac'd the sway in one; 'Twas virtue only, or in arts or arms, Diffusing blessings, or averting harms, The same which in a sire the sons obey'd, A prince the father of a people made. Pope.
 It is taken by Bacon in the feminine: as prince also is.
 Ferdinand and Isabella, kings of Spain, recovered the great and rich kingdom of Granada from the Moors. Bacon.
 A card with the picture of a king.
        The king unseenLurk'd in her hand, and mourn'd his captive queen. Pope.
 King at Arms, or of heralds, a principal officer at arms, that has the pre-eminence of the society; of whom there are three in number, viz. Garter, Norroy, and Clarencieux. Phillips.
 A letter under his own hand was lately shewed me by sir William Dugdale, king at arms. Walton.

King (verb)
To King. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To supply with a king.
         England is so idly king'd, Her sceptre so fantastically borne, By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth, That fear attends her not. Shakespeare's Henry V.
 To make royal; to raise to royalty.
         Sometimes am I a king; Then treason makes me wish myself a beggar, And so I am: then crushing penury Persuades me, I was better when a king; Then am I king'd again. Shakespeare's Richard II.

Kirk
Kirk. n.s. [cẏꞃc, Saxon; κυριακκὴ.] An old word for a church, yet retained in Scotland.
 Home they hasten the posts to dight, And all the kirk pillars ere day-light, With hawthorn buds, and sweet eglantine. Spenser.
 Nor is it all the nation hath these spots, There is a church as well as kirk of Scots. Cleaveland.
 What one party thought to rivet by the Scots, that the other contemns, despising the kirk government and discipline of the Scots. King Charles.

Kite
Kite. n.s. [cẏꞇa, Saxon.]

 A bird of prey that infests the farms, and steals the chickens.
              Ravenous crows and kitesFly o'er our heads. Shakespeare's Julius Cæsar.
More pity that the eagle should be mew'd,While kites and buzzards prey at liberty. Shakes. R. III.
The heron, when she soareth high, so as sometimes she is seen to pass over a cloud, sheweth winds; but kites, flying aloft, shew fair and dry weather. Bacon.
A leopard and a cat seem to differ just as a kite doth from an eagle. Grew.
 A name of reproach denoting rapacity.
Detested kite! thou liest. Shakes. King Lear.
 A fictitious bird made of paper.
A man may have a great estate conveyed to him; but if he will madly burn, or childishly make paper kites of his deeds, he forfeits his title with his evidence. Gov. of the Tongue.

Kitesfoot
Ki'tesfoot. n.s. A plant. Ainsworth.

Kitten (noun)
Ki'tten. n.s. [katteken, Dutch.] A young cat.
That a mare will sooner drown than an horse is not experienced, nor is the same observed in the drowning of whelps and kittens. Brown's Vulgar Err.
It was scratched in playing with a kitten. Wiseman.
Helen was just slipt into bed;Her eyebrows on the toilet lay,Away the kitten with them fled,As fees belonging to her prey. Prior.

Kitten (verb)
To Ki'tten. v.n. [from the noun.] To bring forth young cats.
        So it would have doneAt the same season, if your mother's catHad kitten'd, though yourself had ne'er been born. Shakesp.
The eagle timbered upon the top of a high oak, and the cat kittened in the hollow trunk of it. L'Estrange.

Knap (noun)
Knap. n.s. [cnap, Welsh, a protuberance, or a broken piece; cnæp, Saxon, a protuberance.] A protuberance; a swelling prominence.
You shall see many fine seats set upon a knap of ground, environed with higher hills round about it, whereby the heat of the sun is pent in, and the wind gathereth as in troughs. Bacon.

Knap (verb active)
To Knap. v.a. [knappen, Dutch.]

 To bite; to break short.
He knappeth the spear in sunder. Common Prayer.
He will knap the spears a-pieces with his teeth. More.
 [Knaap, Erse.] To strike so as to make a sharp noise like that of breaking.
Knap a pair of tongs some depth in a vessel of water, and you shall hear the sound of the tongs. Bacon's Natural Hist.

Knap (verb neuter)
To Knap. v.n. To make a short sharp noise.
I reduced shoulders so soon, that the standers-by heard them knap in before they knew they were out. Wiseman's Surgery.

Knapsack
Kna'psack. n.s. [from knappen, to eat.] The bag which a soldier carries on his back; a bag of provisions.
The constitutions of this church shall not be repealed, 'till I see more religious motives than soldiers carry in their knapsacks. King Charles.
If you are for a merry jaunt, I'll try for once who can foot it farthest: there are hedges in Summer, and barns in Winter to be found: I with my knapsack, and you with your bottle at your back: we'll leave honour to madmen, and riches to knaves, and travel 'till we come to the ridge of the world. Dryden's Spanish Fryar.

Knob
Knob. n.s. [cnæp, Saxon; knoop, Dutch.] A protuberance; any part bluntly rising above the rest.
Just before the entrance of the right auricle of the heart is a remarkable knob or bunch, raised up from the subjacent fat; by the interposition whereof the blood falling down by the descending vein is diverted into the auricle. Ray.

Knock (noun)
Knock n.s. [from the verb.]

 A sudden stroke; a blow.
Some men never conceive how the motion of the earth should wave him from a knock perpendicularly directed from a body in the air above. Brown's Vulgar Err. b. vii.
	Ajax belabours there an harmless ox, And thinks that Agamemnon feels the knocks. Dryden.
 A loud stroke at a door for admission.
Guiscard, in his leathern frock, Stood ready, with his thrice-repeated knock: Thrice with a doleful sound the jarring grate Rung deaf and hollow. Dryden's Boccace.

Knock (verb active)
To Knock . v.a.

 To affect or change in any respect by blows.
How do you mean removing him? — — Why, by making him incapable of Othello's place; knocking out his brains. Shakespeare's Othello.
He that has his chains knocked off, and the prison doors set open to him, is perfectly at liberty. Locke
Time was, a sober Englishman would knock His servants up, and rise by five o'clock; Instruct his family in ev'ry rule And send his wife to church, his son to school. Dryden.
 To dash together; to strike; to collide with a sharp noise.
So when the cook saw my jaws thus knock it, She would have made a pancake of my pocket. Cleaveland.
At him he lanch'd his spear, and pierc'd his breast; On the hard earth the Lycian knock'd his head, And lay supine; and forth the spirit fled. Dryden
                 'Tis the sport of statesmen, When heroes knock their knotty heads together, And fall by one another. Rowe
 To Knock down. To fell by a blow.
He began to knock down his fellow citizens with a great deal of zeal, and to fill all Arabia with an unnatural medley of religion and bloodshed. Addison's Freeholder, №. 50.
A man who is gross in a woman's company, ought to be knocked down with a club. Clarissa
 To Knock on the head. To kill by a blow; to destroy.
He betook himself to his orchard, and walking there was knocked on the head by a tree. South's Sermons
Excess, either with an apoplexy, knocks a man on the head; or with a fever, like fire in a strong-water-shop, burns him down to the ground. Grew's Cosmol.

Knocker


Knoll (noun)


Knoll (verb active)


Knoll (verb neuter)


Knop
Knop. n.s. [A corruption of knap.] Any tufty top. Ains.

Knot (noun)
Knot. n.s. [cnoꞇꞇa, Saxon; knot, German; knutte, Dutch; knotte, Erse.]

 A complication of a cord or string not easily to be disentangled.
He found that reason's self now reasons foundTo fasten knots, which fancy first had bound. Sidney.
As the fair vestal to the fountain came,Let none be startled at a vestal's name,Tir'd with the walk, she laid her down to rest;And to the winds expos'd her glowing breast,To take the freshness of the morning air,And gather'd in a knot her flowing hair. Addison.
 Any figure of which the lines frequently intersect each other.
Garden knots, the frets of houses, and all equal figures, please; whereas unequal figures are but deformities. Bacon
Our sea-wall'd garden, the whole land,Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,Her knots disorder'd. Shakesp. Rich. II.
It fed flow'rs worthy of paradise, which not nice artIn beds and curious knots, but nature boon,Pour'd forth profuse on hill and dale, and plain. Milton.
Their quarters are contrived into elegant knots, adorned with the most beautiful flowers. More.
Henry in knots involving Emma's name,Had half-express'd, and half-conceal'd his flameUpon this tree; and as the tender markGrew with the year, and widen'd with the bark,Venus had heard the virgin's soft address,That, as the wound, the passion might increase. Prior.
 Any bond of association or union.
                     Confirm that amityWith nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grantThat virtuous lady Bona. Shakesp. Henry VI.
                         Richmond aimsAt young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,And by that knot looks proudly on the crown. Shakesp.
I would he had continued to his countryAs he began, and not unknit himselfThe noble knot he made. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
             Why left you wife and children,Those precious motives, those strong knots of love. Shak.
Not all that Saul could threaten or persuade,In this close knot, the smallest looseness made. Cowley.
 A hard part in a piece of wood caused by the protuberance of a bough, and consequently by a transverse direction of the fibres.  A joint in an herb.
Taking the very refuse among those which served to no use, being a crooked piece of wood, and full of knots, he hath carved it diligently, when he had nothing else to do. Wisd.
Such knots and crossness of grain is objected here, as will hardly suffer that form, which they cry up here as the only just reformation, to go on so smoothly here as it might do in Scotland. King Charles.
 A confederacy; an association; a small band.
Oh you panderly rascals! there's a knot, a gang, a conspiracy against me. Shakes. Merry Wives of Windsor
What is there here in Rome that can delight thee?Where not a soul, without thine own foul knot,But fears and hates thee. Ben. Johnson's Catiline.
A knot of good fellows borrowed a sum of money of a gentleman upon the king's highway. L'Estrange.
I am now with a knot of his admirers, who make request that you would give notice of the window where the knight intends to appear. Addison's Spectator.
 Difficulty; intricacy.
A man shall be perplexed with knots and problems of business, and contrary affairs, where the determination is dubious, and both parts of the contrariety seem equally weighty; so that, which way soever the choice determines, a man is sure to venture a great concern. South's Sermons.
 Any intrigue, or difficult perplexity of affairs.
When the discovery was made that the king was living, which was the knot of the play untied, the rest is shut up in the compass of some few lines, because nothing then hindered the happiness of Torismond and Leonora. Dryden's Dufresn.
 A cluster; a collection.
The way of fortune is like the milky way in the sky, which is a meeting or knot of a number of small stars, not seen asunder, but giving light together. Bacon's Essays.
In a picture, besides the principal figures which compose it, and are placed in the midst of it, there are less groups or knots of figures disposed at proper distances, which are parts of the piece, and seem to carry on the same design in a more inferior manner. Dryden's Dufresnoy.

Knot (verb active)
To Knot. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To complicate in knots.
Happy we who from such queens are freed,That were always telling beads:But here's a queen when she rides abroadIs always knotting threads. Sidley.
 To intangle; to perplex.

 To unite.
The party of the papists in England are become more knotted, both in dependence towards Spain, and amongst themselves. Bacon's War with Spain.

Knot (verb neuter)
To Knot. v.n.

 To form buds, knots, or joints in vegetation.
Cut hay when it begins to knot. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 To knit knots for fringes.

Knotberrybush
Kno'tberrybush. n.s. A plant. Ains.

Knotgrass


Knotted
Kno'tted. adj. [from knot.] Full of knots.
The knotted oaks shall show'rs of honey weep. Dryden.

Knottiness
Kno'ttiness. n.s. [from knotty.] Fulness of knots; unevenness; intricacy; difficulty.
Virtue was represented by Hercules naked, with lion's skin and knotted club: by his oaken club is signified reason ruling the appetite; the knottiness thereof, the difficulty they have that seek after virtue. Peacham on Drawing.

Knotty


Know (verb active)
To Know. v.a. preter. I knew, I have known. [cnaƿan, Saxon.]

 To perceive with certainty, whether intuitive or discursive.
O, that a man might knowThe end of this day's business ere it come! Shakespeare.
The memorial of virtue is immortal, because it is known with God and with men. Wisd. iv. 1.
The gods all things know. Milton.
Not from experience, for the world was new,He only from their cause their natures knew. Denham.
We doubt not, neither can we properly say we think we admire and love you above all other men: there is a certainty in the proposition, and we know it. Dryden.
When a man makes use of the name of any simple idea, which he perceives is not understood, or is in danger to be mistaken, he is obliged by the laws of ingenuity, and the end of speech, to declare his meaning, and make known what idea he makes it stand for. Locke.
 To be informed of; to be taught.
Ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not removed from you. 1 Sa. vi. 3.
Led on with a desire to knowWhat nearer might concern him. Milton.
One would have thought you had known better things than to expect a kindness from a common enemy. L'Estrange.
 To distinguish.
Numeration is but the adding of one unit more, and giving to the whole a new name, whereby to know it from those before and after, and distinguish it from every smaller or greater multitude of units. Locke.
 To recognize.
What a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on me, that is neither known of thee, nor knows thee? Shakespeare.
They told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. Lu. xxiv. 35.
At nearer view he thought he knew the dead,And call'd the wretched man to mind. Flatman.
Tell me how I may know him. Milton.
 To be no stranger to.
                    What are you?— A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows,Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,Am pregnant to good pity. Shak. King Lear.
 To converse with another sex.
And Adam knew Eve his wife. Gen. iv. 4.
 To see with approbation.
They have reigned, but not by me; they have set a seigniory over themselves, but I knew nothing of it. Hosea.

Know (verb neuter)
To Know. v.n.

 To have clear and certain perception; not to be doubtful.
I know of a surety that the Lord hath sent his angel, and delivered me out of the hand of Herod. Acts xii. 11.
 Not to be ignorant.
When they know within themselves they speak of that they do not well know, they would nevertheless seem to others to know of that which they may not well speak. Bacon's Essays, № 27.
Not to know of things remote, but knowThat which before us lies in daily life,Is the prime wisdom. Milton.
In the other world there is no consideration that will sting our consciences more cruelly than this, that we did wickedly, when we knew to have done better; and chose to make ourselves miserable, when we understood the way to have been happy. Tillotson's Sermons.
They might understand those excellencies which they blindly valued, so as not to be farther imposed upon by bad pieces, and to know when nature was well imitated by the most able masters. Dryden's Dufresony.
 To be informed.
The prince and Mr. Poins will put on two of our jerkins and aprons, and sir John must not know of it. Shakespeare's Henry IV.
There is but one mineral body, that we know of, heavier than common quicksilver. Boyle.
 To Know for. To have knowledge of. A colloquial expression.
He said the water itself was a good healthy water; but for the party that own'd it, he might have more diseases than he knew for. Shakesp. Henry IV.
 To Know of. In Shakespeare, is to take cognisance of; to examine.
        Fair Hermia, question your desires;Know of your youth, examine well your blood,Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,You can endure the livery of a nun.For ay to be in shady cloister mew'd. Shakespeare.

Knowable


Knower


Knowing (adjective)


Knowing (noun)


Knowingly


Knowledge (noun)
Kno'wledge. n.s. [from know.]

 Certain perception; indubitable apprehension.
Knowledge, which is the highest degree of the speculative faculties, consists in the perception of the truth of affirmative or negative propositions. Locke.
 Learning; illumination of the mind.
 Ignorance is the curse of God, Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heav'n. Shakesp.
 Skill in any thing.
 Do but say to me what I should do, That in your knowledge may by me be done, And I am prest unto it. Shak. Merchant of Venice.
 Acquaintance with any fact or person.
 The dog straight fawned upon his master for old knowledge. Sidney.
             That is not forgot; Which ne'er I did remember; to my knowledge I never in my life did look on him. Shakesp. Rich. II.
 Cognisance; notice.
 Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldst take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger? Ruth ii. 10.
 A state's anger should not take Knowledge either of fools or women. Ben. Johnson's Catil.
 Information; power of knowing.
 I pulled off my headpiece, and humbly entreated her pardon, or knowledge why she was cruel. Sidney.

Knowledge (verb)
To Kno'wledge. v.a. [not in use.] To acknowledge; to avow.
 The prophet Hosea tells us that God saith of the Jews, they have reigned, but not by me; which proveth plainly, that there are governments which God doth not avow: for though they be ordained by his secret providence, yet they are not knowledged by his revealed will. Bacon's holy War.

Knubble
To Knu'bble. v.a. [knipler, Danish.] To beat. Skinner.

Knuckle (noun)


Knuckle (verb)


Knuckled


Knuff


Knur
Knur.Knurle.

n.s. [knor, German.] A knot; a hard substance.


The stony nodules found lodged in the strata, are called by the workmen knurs and knots. Woodward's Met. Foss.

Knurle
Knur.Knurle.

n.s. [knor, German.] A knot; a hard substance.


The stony nodules found lodged in the strata, are called by the workmen knurs and knots. Woodward's Met. Foss.

Koned
Koned for knew. Spenser.

Kyd
To Kyd. v.n. [corrupted probably from cuð, Saxon.] To know.
But ah, unjust and worthless Colin Clout,That kydst the hidden kinds of many a weed;Yet kydst not one to cure thy sore heart root,Whose rankling wound as yet doth rifely bleed. Spenser.
