La
La. interject. [corrupted by an effeminate pronunciation from lo.] See; look; behold.
La you! if you speak ill of the devil,How he takes it at heart. Shakes. Twelfth Night.

Labdanum
Lábdanum. n.s. A resin of the softer kind, of a strong and not unpleasant smell, and an aromatick, but not agreeable taste.  This juice exsudates from a low spreading shrub, of the cistus kind, in Crete, and the neighbouring islands; and the Grecian women make balls of it with a small admixture of ambergrease, by way of a perfume.  It was formerly used externally in medicine, but is now neglected. Hill.

Labefy
To Lábefy. v.a. [labefacio, Latin.] To weaken; to impair. Dict.

Label
Lábel. n.s. [labellum, Latin.]

 A small slip or scrip of writing.
              When wak'd, I foundThis label on my bosom; whose containingIs so from sense in hardness, that I canMake no collection of it. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
 Any thing appendant to a larger writing.
On the label of lead, the heads of St. Peter and St. Paul are impressed from the papal seal. Ayliffe's Parergon.
 [In law.] A narrow slip of paper or parchment affixed to a deed or writing, in order to hold the appending seal. So also any paper, annexed by way of addition or explication to any will or testament, is called a label or codicil. Harris.
God join'd my heart to Romeo's; thou our hands;And ere this hand by thee to Romeo seal'd,Shall be the label to another deed,Or my true heart with treacherous revoltTurn to another, this shall slay them both. Shakespeare.

Labent
Lábent. adj. [labens, Lat.] Sliding; gliding; slipping. Dict.

Labial
Lábial. adj. [labialis, Latin.] Uttered by the lips.
The Hebrews have assigned which letters are labial, which dental, and which guttural. Bacon's Natural History.
Some particular affection of sound in its passage to the lips, will seem to make some composition in any vowel which is labial. Holder's Elements of Speech.

Labiated
La'biated. adj. [labium, Latin.] Formed with lips.

Labiodental
Lábiodental. adj. [labium and dentalis.] Formed or pronounced by the co-operation of the lips and teeth.
The dental consonants are very easy; and first the labiodentals f, v, also the linguadentals th, dh. Hold. Elm. of Sp.

Laborant
Labórant. n.s. [laborans, Lat.] A chemist. Not in use.
I can shew you a sort of fixt sulphur, made by an industrious laborant. Boyle.

Laboratory
Láboratory. n.s. [laboratoire, French.] A chemist's workroom.
It would contribute to the history of colours, if chemists would in their laboratory take a heedful notice, and give us a faithful account, of the colours observed in the steam of bodies, either sublimed or distilled. Boyle on Colours.
The flames of love will perform those miracles they of the furnace boast of, would they employ themselves in this laboratory. Decay of Piety.

Laborious
Labórious. adj. [laborieux, French; laboriosus, Latin.]

 Diligent in work; assiduous.
That which makes the clergy glorious, is to be knowing in their professions, unspotted in their lives, active and laborious in their charges, bold and resolute in opposing seducers, and daring to look vice in the face; and lastly, to be gentle, courteous, and compassionate to all. South's Sermons.
To his laborious youth consum'd in war,And lasting age, adorn'd and crown'd with peace. Prior.
 Requiring labour; tiresome; not easy.
A spacious cave within its farmost part,Was hew'd with and fashion'd by laborious art,Through the hill's hollow sides. Dryd. Æn. 6.
Do'st thou love watchings, abstinence, and toil,Laborious virtues all? learn them from Cato. Add. Cato.

Laboriously
Labóriously. adv. [from laborious.] With labour; with toil.
The folly of him, who pumps very laboriously in a ship, yet neglects to stop the leak. Decay of Piety.
I chuse laboriously to bearA weight of woes, and breath the vital air. Pope's Odys.

Laboriousness
Labóriousness. n.s. [from laborious.]

 Toilsomeness; difficulty.
The parallel holds in the gainlessness as well as the laboriousness of the work; those wretched creatures, buried in earth and darkness, were never the richer for all the ore they digged; no more is the insatiate miser. Decay of Piety.
 Diligence; assiduity.

Labour (noun)
Lábour. n.s. [labeur, French; labor, Latin.]

 The act of doing what requires a painful exertion of strength, or wearisome perseverance; pains; toil; travail; work.
If I find her honest, I lose not my labour; if she be otherwise, it is labour well bestowed. Shakes. M. W. of Windsor.
I sent to know your faith, lest the tempter have tempted you, and our labour be in vain. 1 Thes. iii. 5.
 Work to be done.
Being a labour of so great difficulty, the exact performance thereof we may rather wish than look for. Hooker.
                    You were wont to say,If you had been the wife of HerculesSix of his labours you'd have done, and sav'dYour husband so much sweat. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
 Exercise; motion with some degree of violence.
Moderate labour of the body conduces to the preservation of health, and curing many initial diseases; but the toil of the mind destroys health, and generates maladies. Harvey.
 Childbirth; travail.
Sith of womens labours thou hast charge,and generation of goodly doest enlarge,Incline thy will to effect our wishful vow. Spens. Epith.
Not knowing 'twas my labour, I complainOf sudden shootings, and of grinding pain;My throws come thicker, and my cries encreas'd,Which with her hand the conscious nurse suppress'd. Dryd.
Not one woman of two hundred dies in labour. Graunt.
His heart is in continual labour; it even travails with the obligation, and is in pangs 'till it be delivered. South's Serm.

Labour (verb active)
To Lábour. v.a.

 To work at; to move with difficulty; to form with labour; to prosecute with effect.
To use brevity, and avoid much labouring of the work, is to be granted to him that will make an abridgment. 2. Mac.
The matter of the ceremonies had wrought, for the most part, only upon light-headed, weak men, whose satisfaction was not to be laboured for. Clarendon.
The pains of famish'd Tantalus shall feel,And Sisyphus that labours up the hill,The rowling rock in vain, and curst Ixion's wheel. Dryd.
        Had you requir'd my helpful hand,Th' artificer and art you might command,To labour arms for Troy. Dryden's Æneis.
An eager desire to know something concerning him, has occasioned mankind to labour the point under these disadvantages, and turn on all hands to see if there were any thing left which might have the least appearance of information. Pope's Essay on Homer.
 To beat; to belabour.
Take, shepherd, take a plant of stubborn oak,And labour him with many a sturdy stroak. Dryden's Virg.

Labour (verb neuter)
To Labour. v.n. [laboro, Latin.]

 To toil; to act with painful effort.
When shall I come to th' top of that same hill?— You do climb up it now; look how we labour. Shakes.
For your highness' good I ever labour'd,More than mine own. Shakespeare's Hen. VIII.
                Who is with him?— None but the fool, who labours to out-jestHis heart-struck injuries. Shakespeare's K. Lear.
Let more work be laid upon the men, that they may labour therein. Exod. v. 9.
 To do work; to take pains.
Epaphras saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect. Col. iv. 12.
A labouring man that is given to drunkenness shall not be rich. Ecclus. xix. 1.
That in the night they may be a guard to us, and labour on the day. Neh. iv. 22.
Yet is their no end of all his labours; neither saith he, for whom do I labour. Eccl. iv. 8.
As a man had a right to all he could employ his labour upon, so he had no temptation to labour for more than he could make use of. Locke.
 To move with difficulty.
The stone that labours up the hill,Mocking the labourer's toil, returning still,Is love. Granville.
 To be diseased with. [Morbo laborare, Latin.]
        They abound with horse,Of which one want our camp doth only labour,And I have found 'em coming. Ben. Johnson's Catiline.
I was called to another, who in childbed laboured of an ulcer in her left hip. Wiseman.
 To be in distress; to be pressed.
To this infernal lake the fury flies,Here hides her hated head, and frees the lab'ring skies. Dryd.
Trumpets and drums shall fright her from the Throne,As sounding cymbals aid the lab'ring moon. Dryd. Aur.
This exercise will call down the favour of heaven upon you, to remove those afflictions you now labour under from you. Wake's Preparation for Death.
 To be in child-birth; to be in travail.
There lay a log unlighted on the earth,When she was lab'ring in the throws of birth;For th' unborn chief the fatal sisters came,And rais'd it up, and toss'd it on the flame. Dryd. Ovid.
Here, like some furious prophet, Pindar rode,And seem'd to labour with th' inspiring God. Pope.
He is so touch'd with the memory of her benevolence and protection, that his soul labours for an expression enough to represent it. Notes on the Odyssey.

Labourer
Lábourer. n.s. [laboureur, French.]

 One who is employed in coarse and toilsome work.
If a state run most to noblemen and gentlemen, and that the husbandmen be but as their work-folks and labourers, you may have a good cavalry, but never good stable foot. Bacon.
The sun but seem'd the lab'rer of the year,Each waxing moon supply'd her wat'ry store,To swell those tides, which from the line did bearTheir brimful vessels to the Belgian shore. Dryden.
Labourers and idle persons, children and striplings, old men and young men, must have divers diets. Arbuth. on Aliments.
Not balmy sleep to lab'rers faint with pain,Not show'rs to larks, or sun-shine to the bee,Are half so charming, as thy sight to me. Pope's Autumn.
Yet hence the poor are cloth'd, the hungry fed,Health to himself, and to his infants bread,The lab'rer bears. Pope, Ep. iv. l. 167.
The prince cannot say to the merchant, I have no need of thee; nor the merchant to the labourer, I have no need of thee. Swift's Miscel.
 One who takes pains in any employment.
Sir, I am a true labourer; I earn that I eat; get that I wear; owe no man hate; envy no man's happiness. Shakes.
        The stone that labours up the hill,Mocking the lab'rer's toil, returning still,Is love. Granville.

Laboursome
Láboursome. adj. [from labour.] Made with great labour and diligence.
                                ForgetYour laboursome and dainty trims, whereinYou made great Jove angry. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
He hath, my lord, by laboursome petition,Wrung me from my slow leave. Shakespeare's Hamlet.

Labra
La'bra. n.s. [Spanish.] A lip. Hanmer.
Word of denial in thy labras here;Word of denial, froth and scum thou liest. Shakespeare.

Labyrinth
Lábyrinth. n.s. [labyrinthus, Latin.] A maze; a place formed with inextricable windings.
                                Suffolk, stay;Thou may'st not wander in that labyrinth;There Minotaurs, and ugly treasons lurk. Shakespeare.
            Words, which would tearThe tender labyrinth of a maid's soft ear. Donne.
          My clamours tearThe ear's soft labyrinth, and cleft the air. Sandy's Paraph.
The earl of Essex had not proceeded with his accustomed wariness and skill; but run into labyrinths, from whence he could not disentangle himself. Clarendon, b. viii.
My soul is on her journey; do not nowDivert, or lead her back, to lose herselfI' th' maze and winding labyrinth o' th' world. Denham.

Lac
Lac. n.s.
Lac is usually distinguished by the name of a gum, but improperly, because it is inflammable and not soluble in water.  We have three sorts of it, which are all the product of the same tree. 1. The stick lac. 2. The seed lac. 3. The shell lac. Authors leave us uncertain whether this drug belongs to the animal or the vegetable kingdom. Hill.

Lace (noun)
Lace. n.s. [lacet, French; laqueus, Latin.]

 A string; a cord.
There the fond fly entangled, struggled long,Himself to free thereout; but all in vain:For striving more, the more in laces strongHimself he tied, and wrapt his winges twainIn limy snares, the subtil loops among. Spenser
 A snare; a gin.
The king had snared been in love's strong lace. Fairfax.
 A platted string, with which women fasten their clothes.
O! cut my lace, lest my heart cracking, itBreak too. Shakespeare's Winter's Tale.
Doll ne'er was call'd to cut her lace,Or throw cold water in her face. Swift.
 Ornaments of fine thread curiously woven.
Our English dames are much given to the wearing of costly laces; and, if they be brought from Italy, they are in great esteem. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
 Textures of thread, with gold or silver.
He wears a stuff, whose thread is coarse and round,But trimm'd with curious lace. Herbert.
 Sugar. A cant word.
If haply he the sect pursues,That read and comment upon the news;He takes up their mysterious face,He drinks his coffee without lace. Prior.

Lace (verb)
To Lace. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To fasten with a string run through eilet holes.
I caused a fomentation to be made, and put on a laced sock, by which the weak parts were strengthened. Wiseman.
At this, for new replies he did not stay,But lac'd his crested helm, and strode away. Dryden.
These glitt'ring spoils, now made the victor's gain,He to his body suits; but suits in vain:Messapus' helm he finds among the rest,And laces on, and wears the waving crest. Dryd. Æneis.
Like Mrs. Primly's great belly; she may lace it down before, but it burnishes on her hips. Congr. Way of the World.
When Jenny's stays are newly lac'd,Fair Alma plays about her waist. Prior.
 To adorn with gold or silver textures sewed on.
It is but a night-gown in respect of yours; cloath of gold and coats, and lac'd with silver. Shakes. Much ado about Not.
 To embellish with variegations.
                Look, love, what envious streaksDo lace the severing clouds in yonder East;Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund dayStands tiptoe on the misty mountains tops. Shakespeare.
Then clap four slices of pilaster on't,That, lac'd with bits of rustick, makes a front. Pope.
 To beat; whether from the form which L'Estrange uses, or by corruption of lash.
Go you, and find me out a man that has no curiosity at all, or I'll lace your coat for ye. L'Estrange.

Laced Mutton
Laced Mutton. An old word for a whore.
Ay, Sir, I, a lost mutton, gave your letter to her a lac'd mutton, and she gave me nothing for my labour. Shakes.

Laceman
Láceman. n.s. [lace and man.] One who deals in lace.
I met with a nonjuror, engaged with a laceman, whether the late French king was most like Augustus Cæsar, or Nero. Addison's Spectator, № 404.

Lacerable
Lácerable. adj. [from lacerate.] Such as may be torn.
Since the lungs are obliged to a perpetual commerce with the air, they must necessarily lie open to great damages, because of their thin and lacerable composure. Harvey.

Lacerate
To Lácerate. v.a. [lacero, Latin.] To tear; to rend; to separate by violence.
And my sons lacerate and rip up, viper like, the womb that brought them forth. Howel's England's Tears.
The heat breaks through the water, so as to lacerate and lift up great bubbles too heavy for the air to buoy up, and causeth boiling. Derham's Physico-Theology.
Here lacerated friendship claims a tear. Va. of human Wishes.

Laceration
Lacerátion. n.s. [from lacerate.] The act of tearing or rending; the breach made by tearing.
The effects are, extension of the great vessels, compression of the lesser, and lacerations upon small causes. Arbuth.

Lacerative
Lácerative. adj. [from lacerate.] Tearing; having the power to tear.
Some depend upon the intemperament of the part ulcerated, others upon the continual afflux of lacerative humours. Harvey on Consumptions.

Lachrymal
Láchrymal. adj. [lachrymal, French.] Generating tears.
It is of an exquisite sense, that, upon any touch, the tears might be squeezed from the lachrymal glands, to wash and clean it. Cheyne's Philosophical Principles.

Lachrymary
Láchrymary. adj. [lachryma, Latin.] Containing tears.
How many dresses are there for each particular deity? what a variety of shapes in the ancient urns, lamps, and lachrymary vessels. Addison's Travels through Italy.

Lachrymation
Lachrymátion. n.s. [from lachryma.] The act of weeping, or shedding tears.

Lachrymatory
Láchrymatory. n.s. [lachrimatoire, French.] A vessel in which tears are gathered to the honour of the dead.

Laciniated
Lacíniated. adj. [from lacinia, Lat.] Adorned with fringes and borders.

Lack (noun)
Lack. n.s. [from the verb.]

 Want; need; failure.
In the scripture there neither wanteth any thing, the lack whereof might deprive us of life. Hooker, b. i. p. 41.
            Many that are not madHave sure more lack of reason. Shakes. Meas. for Meas.
He was not able to keep that place three days, for lack of victuals. Knolles's History of the Turks.
The trenchant blade, toledo trusty,For want of fighting was grown rusty,And eat into itself, for lackOf somebody to hew and hack. Hudibras, p. i. c. 1.
 Lack, whether noun or verb, is now almost obsolete.

Lack (verb active)
To Lack. v.a. [laecken, to lessen, Dutch.] To want; to need; to be without.
Every good and holy desire, though it lack the form, hath notwithstanding in itself the substance, and with him the force of prayer, who regardeth the very moanings, groans, and sighs of the heart. Hooker, b. v. l. 348.
A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness; thou shalt not lack any thing in it. Deut. viii. 9.
One day we hope thou shalt bring back,Dear Bolingbroke, the justice that we lack. Daniel.
Intreat they may; authority they lack. Daniel.

Lack (verb neuter)
To Lack. v.n.

 To be in want.
The lions do lack and suffer hunger. Common Prayer.
 To be wanting.
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous; wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? Gen. viii. 28.
There was nothing lacking to them: David recovered all. 1 Sam. xxx. 19.
That which was lacking on your part, they have supplied. 1 Cor. xvi. 17.

Lackbrain
Láckbrain. n.s. [lack and brain.] One that wants wit.
What a lackbrain is this? Our plot is as good a plot as ever was laid. Shakespeare's Henry IV. p. i.

Lacker (noun)
Lácker. n.s. A kind of varnish, which, spread upon a white substance, exhibits a gold colour.

Lacker (verb)
To Lácker. v.a. [from the noun.] To do over with lacker.
What shook the stage, and made the people stare?Cato's long wing, flower'd gown, and lacker'd chair. Pope.

Lackey (noun)
Láckey. n.s. [lacquais, French.] An attending servant; a foot-boy.
             They would shame to make me Wait else at door: a fellow counsellor, 'Mong boys, and grooms, and lackeys! Shakes. Hen. VIII.
 Though his youthful blood be fir'd with wine, He's cautious to avoid the coach and six, And on the lackeys will no quarrel fix. Dryden's Juvenal.
 Lacqueys were never so saucy and pragmatical as they are now-a-days. Addison's Spectator, № 481.

Lackey (verb active)
To Láckey. v.a. [from the noun.] To attend servilely. I know not whether Milton has used this word very properly.
                     This common body, Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream, Goes to, and back, lacqueying the varying tide, To rot itself with motion. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleopatra.
 So dear to heav'n is saintly chastity, That when a soul is found sincerely so, A thousand liveried angels lackey her, Driving far off each thing of sin and guilt. Milton.

Lackey (verb neuter)
To Láckey. v.n. To act as a foot-boy; to pay servile attendance.
 Oft have I servants seen on horses ride, The free and noble lacquey by their side. Sandys's Par.
 Our Italian translator of the Æneis is a foot poet; he lackeys by the side of Virgil, but never mounts behind him. Dryd. Ded. Æn.

Lacklinen
Lácklinen. adj. [lack and linen.] Wanting shirts.
 I scorn you, scurvy companion; what? your poor, base, rascally, cheating, lacklinen mate; away, you mouldy rogue, away; I'm made for your master. Shakespeare's Henry IV.

Lacklustre


Laconically


Laconick
Lacónick. adj. [laconicus, Lat. laconique, Fr.] Short; brief; from Lacones, the Spartans, who used few words.
 I grow laconick even beyond laconicism; for sometimes I return only yes, or no, to questionary or petitionary epistles of half a yard long. Pope to Swift.

Laconism
Láconism. n.s. [laconisme, French; loconismus, Latin.] A concise stile: called by Pope laconicism. See LACONICK.
 As the language of the face is universal, so it is very comprehensive: no laconism can reach it. It is the shorthand of the mind, and crowds a great deal in a little room. Collier of the Aspect.

Lactary (adjective)


Lactary (noun)


Lactation
Lactátion. n.s. [lacto, Latin.] The act or time of giving suck.

Lacteal (adjective)
Lácteal. adj. [from lac, Latin.] Conveying chyle.
As the food passes, the chyle, which is the nutritive part, is separated from the excrementitious by the lacteal veins; and from thence conveyed into the blood. Locke.

Lacteal (noun)
Lácteal. n.s. The vessel that conveys chyle.
 The mouths of the lacteals may permit aliment, acrimonious or not, sufficiently attenuated, to enter in people of lax constitutions, whereas their sphincters will shut against them in such as have strong fibres. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Lacteous
Lactéous. adj. [lacteus, Latin.]

 Milky.
 Though we leave out the lacteous circle, yet are there more by four than Philo mentions. Brown's Vulgar Errors.
 Lacteal; conveying chyle.
 The lungs are suitable for respiration, and the lacteous vessels for the reception of the chyle. Bentley's Serm.

Lactescence
Lactes'cence. n.s. [lactesco, Latin.] Tendency to milk.
This lactescence does commonly ensue, when wine, being impregnated with gums, or other vegetable concretions, that abound with sulphureous corpuscles, fair water is suddenly poured upon the solution. Boyle on Colours.

Lactescent
Lactes'cent. adj. [lactescens, Latin.] Producing Milk.
Amongst the pot-herbs are some lactescent plants, as lettuce and endive, which contain a wholesome juice. Arbuth.

Lactiferous
Lacti'ferous. adj. [lac and fero.] What conveys or brings milk.
He makes the breasts to be nothing but glandules, made up of an infinite number of little knots, each whereof hath its excretory vessel, or lactiferous duct. Ray on the Creation.

Lad
Lad. n.s. [loꝺ, Saxon, which commonly signifies people, but sometimes, says Mr. Lye, a boy.]

 A boy; a stripling, in familiar language.
                                     We were  Two lads, that thought there was no more behind,  But such a day to-morrow as to-day,  And to be boy eternal. Shakespeare's Winter's Tale.
The poor lad who wants knowledge, must set his invention on the rack, to say something where he knows no-thing. Locke.
Too far from the ancient forms of teaching several good grammarians have departed, to the great detriment of such lads as have been removed to other schools. Watts.
 A boy, in pastoral language.
For grief whereof the lad whould after joy,  But pin'd away in anguish, and self-will'd annoy. Fa. Qu.
                 The shepherd lad, Whose offspring on the throne of Judah sat  So many ages. Milton's Par. Reg. b. ii. l. 439.

Ladder
La'dder. n.s. [hlaꝺꞃ, Saxon.]

 A frame made with steps placed between two upright pieces.
Whose compost is rotten, and carried in time,  And spread as it should be, thrift's ladder may clime. Tuss.
Now streets grow throng'd, and busy as by day, Some run for buckets to the hallow'd quire; Some cut the pipes, and some the engines play, And some more bold mount ladders to the fire. Dryden.
I saw a stage erected about a foot and a half from the ground, capable of holding four of the inhabitants with two or three ladders to mount it. Gulliver's Travels.
Easy in words thy stile, in sense sublime; 'Tis like the ladder in the patriarch's dream, Its foot on earth, its height above the skies. Prior
 Any thing by which one climbs.
Then took she help to her of a servant near about her husband, whom she knew to be of a hasty ambition; and such a one, who wanting true sufficiency to raise him, would make a ladder of any mischief. Sidney, b. ii.
                 I must climb her window, The ladder made of cords. Shakes. Two Gent. of Verona.
Northumberland, thou ladder, by the which My cousin Bolingbroke ascends my throne. Shakes.
Lowliness is young ambition's ladder, Whereto the climber upward turns his face. Shakes.
 A gradual rise.
Endow'd with all these accomplishments, we leave him in the full career of success, mounting fast towards the top of the ladder ecclesiastical, which he hath a fair probability to reach. Swift.

Lade (noun)


Lade (verb)


Lading


Ladle


Ladle-ful


Lady


Lady-bedstraw
La'dy-bedstraw. n.s. [Gallium.] It is a plant of the stellate kind; the leaves are neither rough nor knappy, and produced at the joints of the stalks, five or six in number, in a radiant form: the flower consists of one leaf, expanded toward the upper part, and divided into several segments; each of these flowers is succeeded by two dry seeds. Miller

Lady-bird
La'dy-bird.La'dy-cow.La'dy-fly.

n.s. A small red insect vaginopennous.


Fly lady-bird, north, south, or east or west, Fly where the man is found that I love best. Gay's Past.
This lady-fly I take from off the grass, Whose spotted back might scarlet red surpass. Gay.

Lady-cow
La'dy-bird.La'dy-cow.La'dy-fly.

n.s. A small red insect vaginopennous.


Fly lady-bird, north, south, or east or west, Fly where the man is found that I love best. Gay's Past.
This lady-fly I take from off the grass, Whose spotted back might scarlet red surpass. Gay.

Lady-day


Lady-fly
La'dy-bird.La'dy-cow.La'dy-fly.

n.s. A small red insect vaginopennous.


Fly lady-bird, north, south, or east or west, Fly where the man is found that I love best. Gay's Past.
This lady-fly I take from off the grass, Whose spotted back might scarlet red surpass. Gay.

Lady-like


Lady-mantle


Lady's-slipper


Lady's-smock


Ladyship


Lag (adjective)


Lambative (adjective)
Lambative.  adj. [from lambo, to lick.] Taken by licking.
 In affections both of lungs and weazon, physicians make use of syrups, and lambative medicines. Brown's Vul. Errors.

Lambative (noun)
Lámbative. n.s. A medicine taken by licking with the tongue.
 I stitch'd up the wound, and applied astringents, with compress and retentive bandage, then put him into bed, and let him blood in the arm, advising a lambative, to be taken as necessity should require.. Wiseman's Surgery.

Lamdoidal
Lamdoídal. n.s. [λάμδα and εἴδος.] Having the form of the letter lamda or Λ.
 The course of the longitudinal sinus down through the middle of it, makes it adviseable to trapan at the lower part of the os parietale, or at least upon the lamdoidal suture. Sharp's Surgery.

Lamm
To Lamm. v.a. To beat soundly with a cudgel. Dict.

Lammas
Lámmas. n.s. [This word is said by Bailey, I know not on what authority, to be derived from a custom, by which the tenants of the archbishop of York were obliged, at the time of mass, on the first of August, to bring a lamb to the altar.  In Scotland they are said to wean lambs on this day.  It may else be corrupted from lattermath.] The first of August.
 In 1578 was that famous lammas day, which buried the reputation of Don John of Austria. Bacon.

Lamping
Lámping. adj. [λαμπετάων.] Shining; sparkling.
 Happy lines, on which with starry light Those lamping eyes will deign sometimes to look. Spenser.

Lampoon (noun)
Lampóon. n.s. [Bailey derives it from lampons, a drunken song.  It imports, let us drink, from the old French lamper, and was repeated at the end of each couplet at carousals. Trev.] A personal satire; abuse; censure written not to reform but to vex.
 They say my talent is satire; if so, it is a fruitful age: they have sown the dragon's teeth themselves, and it is but just they should reap each other in lampoons. Dryden.
 Make satire a lampoon. Pope.

Lampoon (verb)
To Lampóon. v.a. [from the noun.] To abuse with personal satire.

Lampooner
Lampóoner. n.s. [from lampoon.] A scribbler of personal satire.
 We are naturally displeased with an unknown critick, as the ladies are with a lampooner, because we are bitten in the dark. Dryden's Æn.
 The squibs are those who are called libellers, lampooners, and pamphleteers. Tatler, № 88.

Lapidate
To Lápidate. v.a. [lapido, Latin.] To stone; to kill by stoning. Dict.

Lapidation
Lapidátion. n.s. [lapidatio, Lat. lapidation, Fr.] A stoning.

Lapideous
Lapídeous. adj. [lapideus, Latin.] Stony; of the nature of stone.
 There might fall down into the lapideous matter, before it was concreted into a stone, some small toad, which might remain there imprisoned, till the matter about it were condensed. Ray on Creation.

Lapidescence
Lapidéscence. n.s. [lapidesco, Latin.] Stony concretion.
 Of lapis ceratites, or cornu fossile, in subterraneous cavities, there are many to be found in Germany, which are but the lapidescencies, and putrefactive mutations, of hard bodies. Brown's Vulgar Errors, b. iii. c. 22.

Lapidescent
Lapidéscent. adj. [lapidescens, Latin.] Growing or  turning to stone.

Lapidification
Lapidificátion. [lapidification, French.] The act of forming stones.
 Induration or lapidification of substances more soft, is another degree of condensation. Bacon's Natural History.

Lash (noun)
Lash. n.s. [The most probable etymology of this word seems to be that of Skinner, from schlagen, Dutch, to strike; whence slash and lash.]

 A stroke with any thing pliant and tough.
From hence are heard the groans of ghosts, the painsOf sounding lashes, and of dragging chains. Dryden's Æn.
Rous'd by the lash of his own stubborn tail,Our lion now ill foreign foes assail. Dryden.
 The thong or point of the whip which gives the cut or blow.
Her whip of cricket's bone, her lash of film,Her waggoner a small grey-coated gnat. Shakespeare.
I observed that your whip wanted a lash to it. Addis. Spect.
 A leash, or string in which an animal is held; a snare: out of use.
The farmer they leave in the lash,With losses on every side. Tusser's Husbandry.
 A stroke of satire; a sarcasm.
The moral is a lash at the vanity of arrogating that to ourselves which succeeds well. L'Estrange.

Lash (verb active)
To Lash. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To strike with any thing pliant; to scourge.
Lucagus to lash his horses bends,Prone to the wheels. Dryden.
Lets whip these stragglers o'er the seas again,Lash hence these over-weening rags of France. Shakesp.
Let men out of their way lash on ever so fast, they are not all the nearer their journey's end. South's Serm.
He charg'd the flames, and those that disobey'dHe lash'd to duty with his sword of light. Dryden.
And limping death, lash'd on by fate,Comes up to shorten half our date. Dryden's Horace.
Stern as tutors, and as uncles hard,We lash the pupil, and defraud the ward. Dryden's Pers.
Leaning on his lance he mounts his car,His fiery coursers lashing through the air. Garth's Ovid.
 To move with a sudden spring or jirk.
The club hung round his ears, and batter'd brows;He falls; and lashing up his heels, his rider throws. Dryd.
 To beat; to strike with a sharp sound.
                        The winds grow high,Impending tempests charge the sky;The lightning flies, the thunder roars,And big waves lash the frighted shoars. Prior.
 To scourge with satire.
Could pension'd Boileau lash in honest strain,Flatt'rers and bigots ev'n in Louis' reign. Pope's Horace.
 To tie any thing down to the side or mast of a ship.

Lash (verb neuter)
To Lash. v.n. To ply the whip.
They lash aloud, each other they provoke,And lend their little souls at every stroke. Dryden's Æn.
Gentle or sharp, according to thy choice,To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice. Dryden's Persius.
Wheels clash with wheels, and bar the narrow street;The lashing whip resounds. Gay's Trivia.

Lasher
Lasher. n.s. [from lash.] One that whips or lashes.

Latrant
Látrant. adj. [latrans, Latin.] Barking.
Thy care be first the various gifts to trace,The minds and genius of the latrant race. Tickell.

Laugh (noun)
Laugh. n.s. [from the verb.] The convulsion caused by merriment; an inarticulate explosion of sudden merriment.
Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain, Then hid in shades, eludes her eager swain; But feigns a laugh, to see me search around, And by that laugh the willing fair is found. Pope's Spring.

Laugh (verb active)
To Laugh. v.a. To deride; to scorn.
Be bloody, bold and resolute; laugh to scorn The pow'r of man. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
A wicked soul shall make him to be laughed to scorn of his enemies. Ecclus. vi. 4.

Laugh (verb neuter)
To Laugh. v.n. [hlahan, Saxon; lachen, German and Dutch; lach, Scottish.]

 To make that noise which sudden merriment excites.
 You saw my master wink and laugh on you. Shakesp.
 There's one  did laugh in's sleep, and one cried,  Murther! They waked each other. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
              At this fusty stuff The large Achilles, on his prest-bed lolling, From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause. Shakesp.
 Laughing causeth a continued expulsion of the breath with the loud noise, which maketh the interjection of laughing, shaking of the breast and sides, running of the eyes with water, if it be violent. Bacon's Natural History.
 [In poetry] To appear gay, favourable, pleasant, or fertile.
 Entreat her not the worse, in that I pray You use her well; the world may laugh again, And I may live to do you kindness, if  You do it her. Shakespear's Henry VI. p i.
 Then laughs the childish year with flowrets crown'd. Dry.
 The plenteous board, high-heap'd with cates divine, And o'er the foaming bowl the laughing wine. Pope.
 To Laugh at. To treat with conempt; to ridicule.
                  Presently prepare thy grave; Lie where the light foam of the sea may beat Thy grave-stone daily; make thine epitaph, That death in me at others may laugh. Shakesp.
 'Twere better for you, if 'twere not known in council; you'll be laugh'd at. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
 The dissolute and abandoned, before they are aware of it, are often betrayed to laugh at themselves, and upon reflection find, that they are merry at their own expence. Addison's Freeholder, №. 45.
 No wit to flatter left of all his store; No fool to laugh at, which he valued more. Pope.

Laurel
La'urel. n.s. [laurus, Lat laurier, French.] A tree, called also the cherry bay.
It hath broad thick shining ever-green leaves, somewhat like those of the bay tree; the cup of the flower is hollow, and funnel-shaped, spreading open at the top, and is divided into five parts: the flower consists of five leaves, which expand in form of a rose, having many stamina in the centre; the fruit, which is like that of the cherry tree, is produced in bunches, and the stone in longer and narrower than that of the cherry. Miller.
The laurus or laurel of the ancients is affirmed by naturalists to be what we call the bay tree. Ainsworth.
The laurel, meed of mighty conquerors, And poets sage. Spenser's Fairy Queen.
The laurel or cherry-bay, by cutting away the side branches, will rise to a large tree. Mortimer's Husbandry.

Laveer
To Lave'er. v.n. To change the direction often in a course.
How easy 'tis when destiny proves kind, With full-spread sails to run before the wind: But those that 'gainst stiff gales laveering go, Must be at once resolv'd, and skillful too. Dryden.

Lazy
Lázy. adj. [This word is derived by a correspondent, with great probability, from a l'aise, French; but it is however Teutonick: lijser in Danish, and losigh in Dutch, have the same meaning; and Spelman gives this account of the word: Dividebantur antiqui Saxones, ut testatur Nithardus, in tres ordines; Edhilingos, Frilingos & Lazzos; hoc est nobiles, ingenuos & serviles: quam & nos distinctionem diu retinuimus.  Sed Ricardo autem secundo pars servorum maxima se in libertatem vindicavit; sic ut hodie apud Anglos rarior inveniatur servus, qui mancipium dicitur.  Restat nihilominus antiquæ appellationis commemoratio. Ignavos enim hodie lazie dicimus.]

 Idle; sluggish; unwilling to work.
Our soldiers, like the night-owl's lazy flight,Or like a lazy thrasher with a flail,Fall gently down, as if they struck their friends. Shakesp.
Wicked condemned men will ever live like rogues, and not fall to work, but be lazy, and spend victuals. Bacon.
Whose lazy waters without motion lay. Roscommon.
The lazy glutton safe at home will keep,Indulge his sloth, and batten with his sleep. Dryden.
Like Eastern kings a lazy state they keep,And close confin'd in their own palace sleep. Pope.
What amazing stupidity is it, for men to be negligent of salvation themselves? to sit down lazy and unactive. Rogers.
 Slow; tedious.
The ordinary method for recruiting their armies, was now too dull and lazy an expedient to resist this torrent. Clarendon.

Lead (noun 1)


Lead (noun 2)


Lead (verb active 1)


Lead (verb active 2)


Lead (verb neuter)


Leap-year
Leap-year. n.s.
Leap-year or bissextile is every fourth year, and so called from its leaping a day more that year than in a common year: so that the common year hath 365 days, but the leap-year 366; and then February hath 29 days, which in common years hath but 28.  To find the leap-year you have this rule:        Divide by 4; what's left shall be        For leap-year 0, for past 1, 2, 3. Harris.
That the sun consisteth of 365 days and almost six hours, wanting eleven minutes; which six hours omitted will, in process of time, largely deprave the compute; and this is the occasion of the bissextile or leap-year. Brown's Vulg. Err.

Leek
Leek. n.s. [leac, Saxon; loock, Dutch; leechk, Erse.]
Its flower consists of six pedals, and is shaped, as it were, like a bell; in the center arises the pointal, which afterward becomes a roundish fruit, divided into three cells, which contain roundish seeds: to these notes may be added, the stamina are generally broad and flat, ending in three capillaments, of which the middle one is furnished with a chive; the flowers are also gathered into almost globular branches: the roots are long, cylindrical, and coated, the coats ending in plain leaves. Miller.
Know'st thou Fluellen? — Yes.— Tell him I'll knock his leek about his pate,Upon St. David's day. Shakespeare's Henry V.
Leek to the Welsh, to Dutchmen butter's dear. Gay.
We use acrid plants inwardly and outwardly in gangreens; in the scurvy, water-cresses, horse-radish, garlick, or leek pottage. Floyer on Humours.

Leet
Leet. n.s.
Leete, or leta, is otherwise called a law-day.  The word seemeth to have grown from the Saxon leðe, which was a court of jurisdiction above the wapentake or hundred, comprehending three or four of them, otherwise called thirshing, and contained the third part of a province or shire: these jurisdictions, one and other, be now abolished, and swallowed up in the county court. Cowell.
            Who has a breast so pure,But some uncleanly apprehensionsKeep leets and law-days, and in sessions sitWith meditations lawful. Shakespeare's Othello.
You would present her at the leet,Because she bought stone jugs, and no seal'd quarts. Shak.

Legerity
Leǵerity. n.s. [legereté, French.] Lightness; nimbleness; quickness. A word not in use.
            When the mind is quicken'd,The organs though defunct and dead before,Break up their drowsy grave, and newly moveWith casted slough and fresh legerity. Shakespeare.

Leman
Léman. n.s. [Generally supposed to be laimant, the lover, French; but imagined by Junius with almost equal probability, to be derived from leef, Dutch, or loef, Saxon, beloved and man.  This etymology is strongly supported by the antient orthography, according to which it was written leveman.] A sweetheart; a gallant; or a mistress. Hanmer.
 Hold for my sake, and do him not to dye; But vanquish'd, thine eternal bondslave make, And me thy worthy meed unto thy leman take. Fa. Qu.


          A cup of wine, That's brisk and fine, And drink unto the leman mine.

Shakes. Henry IV.

Lemma
Lémma. n.s. [λῆμμα; lemme, French.] A proposition previously assumed.

Lemon
Lémon. n.s. [limon, French; limonium, low Latin.]

 The fruit of the lemon-tree.
 The juice of lemons is more cooling and astringent than that of oranges. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 The dyers use it for dying of bright yellows and lemon colours. Mortimer's Husbandry.
                         Bear me, Pomona! To where the lemon and the piercing lime, With the deep orange, glowing through the green, Their lighter glories blend. Thomson's Sermons.
 The tree that bears lemons.
The lemon tree hath large stiff leaves; the flower consists of many leaves, which expand in form of a rose: the fruit is almost an oval figure, and divided into several cells, in which are lodged hard seeds, surrounded by a thick fleshy substance, which, for the most part, is full of an acid juice.  There are many varieties of this tree, and the fruit is yearly imported from Lisbon in great plenty. Miller.

Lemonade
Lemonáde. n.s. [from lemon.] Liquor made of water, sugar, and the juice of lemons.
 Thou, and thy wife, and children, should walk in my gardens, buy toys, and drink lemonade. Arbuth. J. Bull.

Lenify
To Lénify. v.a. [lenifier, old French; lenio, Latin.] To assuage; to mitigate.
It is used for squinancies and inflammations in the throat, whereby it seemeth to have a mollifying and lenifying virtue. Bacon's Natural History, № 554.
All soft'ning simples, known of sov'reign use,He presses out, and pours their noble juice;These first infus'd, to lenify the pain,He tugs with pincers, but he tugs in vain. Dryden.

Lentitude
Léntitude. n.s. [from lentus, Latin.] Sluggishness; slowness. Dict.

Less (adjective)
Less. adj. [laꞅ, Saxon.] The comparative of little: opposed to greater.
Mary, the mother of James the less. Mar. xv. 40.
Yet could he not his closing eyes withdraw, Though less and less of Emily he saw. Dryden.
He that thinks he has a positive idea of infinite space will find, that he can no more have a positive idea of the greatest than he has of the least space; for in this latter we are capable only of a comparative idea of smallness, which will always be less than any one whereof we have the positive idea. Locke.
All the ideas that are considered as having parts, and are capable of increase by the addition of any equal or less parts, affords us, by their repetition, the idea of infinity. Locke.
'Tis less to conquer, than to make wars cease, And, without fighting, awe the world to peace. Hallifax.

Less (adverb)
Less. adv.  In a smaller degree; in a lower degree.
This opinion presents a less merry, but not less dangerous, temptation to those in adversity. Decay of Piety.
The less space there is betwixt us and the object, and the more pure the air is, by so much the more the species are preserved and distinguished; and, on the contrary, the more space of air there is, and the less it is pure, so much the more the object is confused and embroiled. Dryden.
Their learning lay chiefly in flourish; they were not much wiser than the less pretending multitude. Collier on Pride.
The less they themselves want to receive from others, they will be less careful to supply the necessities of the indigent. Smalridge's Sermons.
Happy, and happy still, she might have prov'd, Were she less beautiful, or less belov'd. Pope's Statius.

Less (composition)
Less. A negative or privative termination. [laꞅ, Saxon; loos, Dutch.] Joined to a substantive, it implies the absence or privation of the thing expressed by that substantive: as, a witless man, a man without wit; childless, without children; fatherless, deprived of a father; pennyless, wanting money.

Less (noun)
Less. n.s. Not so much; opposed to more.
They gathered some more, some less.  Exod. xvi. 17.
Thy servant knew nothing of this, less or more. 1 Sam.

Lexicographer
Lexicógrapher. n.s. [λεξικὸν and γράφω; lexicographe, French.] A writer of dictionaries; a harmless drudge, that busies himself in tracing the original, and detailing the signification of words.
Commentators and lexicographers acquainted with the Syriac language, have given these hints in their writings on scripture. Watts's Improvement of the Mind.

Liberty
Líberty. n.s. [liberté, French; libertas, Latin.]

 Freedom, as opposed to slavery.
My master knows of your being here, and hath threatened to put me into everlasting liberty, if I tell you of it; for he swears, he'll turn me away. Shakespeare.
O liberty! thou goddess, heav'nly bright!Profuse of bliss, and pregnant with delight,Eternal pleasures in thy presence reign. Addison.
 Freedom, as opposed to necessity.
Liberty is the power in any agent to do, or forbear, any particular action, according to the determination, or thought of the mind, whereby either of them is preferred to the other. Locke.
As it is in the motions of the body, so it is in the thoughts of our minds: where any one is such, that we have power to take it up, or lay it by, according to the preference of the mind, there we are at liberty. Locke.
 Privilege; exemption; immunity.
His majesty gave not an intire country to any, much less did he grant jura gealia, or any extraordinary liberties. Davies.
 Relaxation of restraint.

 Leave; permission.
I shall take the liberty to consider a third ground, which, with some men, has the same authority. Locke.

Librarian
Librárian. n.s. [librarius, Latin.]

 One who has the care of a library.

 One who transcribes or copies books.
 Charybdis thrice swallows, and thrice refunds, the waves: this must be understood of regular tides. There are indeed but two tides in a day, but this is the error of the librarians. Broome's Notes on the Odyssey.

Libratory
Líbratory. adj. [from libro, Lat.] Balancing; playing like a balance.

Lich
Lich. n.s. [lice, Saxon.] A dead carcase; whence lichwake, the time or act of watching by the dead; lichgate, the gate through which the dead are carried to the grave; Lichfield, the field of the dead, a city in Staffordshire, so named from martyred christians.  Salve magna parens. Lichwake is still retained in Scotland in the same sense.

Licorice
Licorice. n.s. [γλυκύῤῥιζα; liquoricia, Italian; glycyrrhzza, Latin.] A root of sweet taste.
Liquorice hath a papilionaceous flower; the pointal which arises from the empalement becomes a short pod, containing several kidney-shaped seeds; the leaves are placed by parts joined to the mid-rib, and are terminated by an odd lobe. Miller.
Liquorice root is long and slender, externally of a dusky reddish brown, but within of a fine yellow, full of juice, void of smell, and of a taste sweeter than sugar, it grows wild in many parts of France, Italy, Spain, and Germany. This root is excellent in coughs, and all disorders of the lungs.  The inspissated juice of this root is brought to us from Spain and Holland; from the first of which places it obtained the name of Spanish juice. Hill's Materia Medica.

Lid


Lie (noun 1)


Lie (noun 2)


Lie (verb 1)


Lie (verb 2)


Lief (adjective)


Lief (adverb)


Lilach
Lílach. n.s. [lilac, lilâs, French.] A tree.
 The white thorn is in leaf, and the lilach tree. Bacon.

Linen (noun)
Línen. n.s. [linum, Latin.] Cloth made of hemp or flax.
 Here is a basket, he may creep in; throw foul linen upon him, as if going to bucking. Shakesp. M. Wives of Windsor.
 Unseen, unfelt, the fiery serpent skims Between her linen and her naked limbs. Dryden's Æn.

Literal (adjective)
Líteral. adj. [literal, French; litera, Latin.]

 According to the primitive meaning, not figurative.
 Through all the writings of the antient fathers, we see that the words, which were, do continue; the only difference is, that whereas before they had a literal, they now have a metaphorical use, and are as so many notes of remembrance unto us, that what they did signify in the letter, is accomplished in the truth. Hooker, b. iv.
 A foundation, being primarily of use in architecture, hath no other literal notation but what belongs to it in relation to an house, or other building, nor figurative, but what is founded in that, and deduced from thence. Hammond.
 Following the letter, or exact words.
 The fittest for publick audience are such as, following a middle course between the rigour of literal translations and the liberty of paraphrasts, do with greater shortness and plainness deliver the meaning. Hooker, b. v.
 Consisting of letters; as, the literal notion of numbers was known to Europeans before the cyphers.

Literally
Líterally. adv. [from literal.]

 According to the primitive import of words; not figuratively.
 That a man and his wife are one flesh, I can comprehend the meaning of; yet literally taken, it is a thing impossible. Swift.
 With close adherence to words.
 Endeavouring to turn his Nisus and Euryalus as close as I was able, I have performed that episode too literally; that giving more scope to Mezentius and Lausus, that version, which has more of the majesty of Virgil, has less of his conciseness. Dryden.
 So wild and ungovernable a poet cannot be translated literally; his genius is too strong to bear a chain. Dryden.

Literati
Literáti. n.s. [Italian.] The learned.
 I shall consult some literati on the project sent me for the discovery of the longitude. Spectator, № 581.

Logarithms
Lógarithms. n.s. [logarithme, Fr. λόγος and ἄριθμος.]
Logarithms, which are the indexes of the ratio's of numbers one to another; were first invented by Napier lord Merchison, a Scottish baron, and afterwards completed by Mr. Briggs, Savilian professor at Oxford.  They are a series of artificial numbers, contrived for the expedition of calculation, and proceeding in an arithmetical proportion, as the numbers they answer to do in a geometrical one: for instance,


0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9


1
2
4
8
16
32
64
128
256
512


Where the numbers above, beginning with (0), and arithmetically proportional, are called logarithms.  The addition and subtraction of logarithms answers to the multiplication and division of the numbers they correspond with; and this saves an infinite deal of trouble.  In like manner will the extraction of roots be performed, by dissecting the logarithms of any numbers for the square root, and trisecting them for the cube, and so on. Harris.

Loggats
Lóggats. n.s.
Loggats is the ancient name of a play or game, which is one of the unlawful games enumerated in the thirty-third statute of Henry VIII.  It is the same which is now called kittlepins, in which boys often make use of bones instead of wooden pins, throwing at them with another bone instead of bowling. Hanmer.
Did these bones cost no more the breeding, but to play at loggats with them. Shakespeare's Hamlet.

Loll (verb active)
To Loll. v.a. To put out: used of the tongue exerted.
All authors to their own defects are blind;Hadst thou but, Janus-like, a face behind,To see the people, when splay mouths they make,To mark their fingers pointed at thy back,Their tongues loll'd out a foot. Dryden's Persius.
By Strymon's freezing streams he sat alone,Trees bent their heads to hear him sing his wrongs,Fierce tygers couch'd around, and loll'd their fawning tongues. Dryden's Virgil.
By the wolf were laid the martial twins;Intrepid on her swelling dugs they hung,The foster-dam loll'd out her fawning tongue. Dryden.

Loll (verb neuter)
To Loll. v.n. [Of this word the etymology is not known.  Perhaps it might be contemptuously derived from lollard, a name of great reproach before the reformation; of whom one tenet was, that all trades not necessary to life are unlawful.]

 To lean idly; to rest lazily against any thing.
So hangs, and lolls, and weeps upon me; so shakes and pulls me. Shakespeare's Othello.
He is not lolling on a lewd love bed,But on his knees at meditation. Shakesp. Rich. III.
Close by a softly murm'ring stream,Where lovers us'd to loll and dream. Hudibras, p. i.
To loll on couches, rich with cytron steds,And lay your guilty limbs in Tyrian beds. Dryden.
Void of care he lolls supine in state,And leaves his business to be done by fate. Dryd. Pers.
But wanton now, and lolling at our ease,We suffer all the invet'rate ills of peace. Dryden.
                    A lazy, lolling sortOf ever listless loit'rers. Dunciad, b. iv.
 To hang out.  Used of the tongue hanging out in weariness or play.
The triple porter of the Stygian seat,With lolling tongue lay fawning at thy feet. Dryden.
With harmless play amidst the bowls he pass'd,And with his lolling tongue assay'd the taste. Dryden.

Loof (noun)
Loof. n.s. It is that part aloft of the ship which lies just before the chess-trees, as far as the bulk head of the castle. Sea Dictionary.

Loof (verb)
To Loof. v.a. To bring the ship close to a wind.

Love (verb)
To Love. v.a. [lufian, Saxon.]

 To regard with passionate affection, as that of one sex to the other.
 Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love. — It is to be made all of sighs and tears; It is to be made all of faith and service; It is to be all made of fantasy, All made of passion, and all made of wishes; All adoration, duty, and obedience; All humbleness, all patience, all impatience, All purity, all trial, all observance. Shakesp. As you like it.
 I could not love I'm sure One who in love were wise. Cowley.
 The jealous man wishes himself a kind of deity to the person he loves; he would be the only employment of her thoughts. Addison's Spectator, № 170.
 To regard with the affection of a friend.
 None but his brethren he, and sisters, knew, Whom the kind youth prefer'd to me, And much above myself I lov'd them too. Cowley.
 To regard with parental tenderness.
 He that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. John xiv. 21.
 To be pleased with.
 Fish used to salt water delight more in fresh: we see that salmons and smelts love to get into rivers, though against the stream. Bacon's Nat. Hist. № 703.
 Wit, eloquence, and poetry, Arts which I lov'd. Cowley.
 He lov'd my worthless rhimes. Cowley.
 To regard with reverent unwillingness to offend.
Love the Lord thy God with all thine heart. Deut. vi. 5.

Lubber
Lúbber. n.s. [of this word the best derivation seems to be from lubbed, said by Junius to signify in Danish fat.] A sturdy drone; an idle, fat bulky losel; a booby.
For tempest and showers deceiveth a many,And ling'ring lubbers loose many a penie. Tusser's Husb.
These chase the smaller shoals of fish from the main sea into the havens, leaping up and down, puffing like a fat lubber out of breath. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,As if his feet were on brave Hector's breast,And great Troy shrinking. Shakesp. Troil. and Cressida.
A notable lubber thou reportest him to be. Shakesp.
Tell how the drudging goblin sweat;His shadowy flail hath thresh'd the corn,That ten day labourers could not end;Then lies him down the lubber fend. Milton.
Venetians do not more uncouthly ride,Than did your lubber state mankind bestride. Dryden.
How can you name that superannuated lubber? Congreve.

Luctation
Lúctation. n.s. [luctor, Latin.] Struggle; effort; contest.

Lucubrate
To Lúcubrate. n.s. [lucubror, Lat.] To watch; to study by night.

Lucubration
Lucubrátion. n.s. [lucubratio, Latin.] Study by candle-light; nocturnal study; any thing composed by night.
Thy lucubrations have been perused by several of our friends. Tatler, № 78.

Lucubratory
Lucubrátory. adj. [lucubratorius, from lucubror, Latin.] Composed by candle-light.
You must have a sober dish of coffee, and a solitary candle at your side, to write an epistle lucubratory to your friend. Pope.

Luculent
Lúculent. adj. [luculentus, Latin.]

 Clear; transparent; lucid.  This word is perhaps not used in this sense by any other writer.
                And luculent alongThe purer rivers flow. Thomson's Winter, l. 715.
 Certain; evident.
They are against the obstinate incredulity of the Jews, the most luculent testimonies that Christian religion hath. Hooker.

Ludicrous
Lúdicrous. adj. [ludicer, Lat.] Burlesque; merry; sportive; exciting laughter.
Plutarch quotes this as an instance of Homer's judgment, in closing a ludicrous scene with decency and instruction. Notes on the Odyssey.

Ludicrously
Lúdicrously. adv. [from ludicrous.] Sportively; in burlesque; in a manner that may excite laughter.

Ludicrousness
Lúdicrousness. n.s. [from ludicrous.] Burlesque; sportiveness; merry cast or manner; ridiculousness.

Ludification
Ludificátion. n.s. [ludificor, Latin.] The act of mocking, or making sport with another. Dict.

Luff (noun)
Luff. n.s. [in Scotland.] The palm of the hand; as, clap me arles in my luff.

Luff (verb)
To Luff. v.n. [or loof.] To keep close to the wind. Sea term.
Contract your swelling sails, and luff to wind. Dryden.
