Macaroon
Macaróon. n.s. [macarone, Italian.]

 A coarse, rude, low fellow; whence macaronick poetry, in which the language is purposely corrupted.
Like a big wife, at sight of lothed meat,Ready to travail; so I sigh and sweat,To hear this macaroon talk on in vain. Donne.
 [Macaron, French, from μάκαρ.] A kind of sweet biscuit, made of flower, almonds, eggs, and sugar.

Macaw
Macáw. n.s. A bird in the West-Indies.

Macaw-tree
Macaw-tree. n.s.
The macaw-tree is a species of the palm-tree, and is very common in the Caribbee islands, where the negroes pierce the tender fruit, whence issues a pleasant liquor, which they are very fond of; and the body of the tree affords a solid timber, with which they make javelins, arrows, &c. and is supposed by some to be a sort of ebony. Miller.

Mace
Mace. n.s. [maʒʒa, Saxon; maça, Spanish.]

 An ensign of authority worn before magistrates.
He mightily upheld that royal maceWhich now thou bear'st. Fairy Queen, b. ii.
Death with his mace petrifick smote. Milton.
 [Massue, French; massa, Latin.] A heavy blunt weapon; a club of metal.
                  O murth'rous slumber!Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boyThat plays thee musick? Shakesp. Julius Cæsar.
The Turkish troops breaking in with their scymitars and heavy iron maces, made a most bloody execution. Knolles.


With his mace their monarch struck the ground;With inward trembling earth receiv'd the wound,And rising streams a ready passage found.

Dryden.


The mighty maces with such haste descend,They break the bones, and make the solid armour bend. Dryden's Knight's Tale.
 [Macis, Latin.] A kind of spice.
The nutmeg is inclosed in a threefold covering, of which the second is mace: it is a thin and flat membranaceous substance, of an oleaginous, and a yellowish colour: it has an extremely fragrant, aromatick, and agreeable smell, and a pleasant, but acrid and oleaginous taste.  Mace is carminative, stomachick, and astringent. Hill's Mat. Med.
Water, vinegar, and honey, is a most excellent sudorifick: it is more effectual with a little mace added to it. Arbuthnot.

Maceale
Maceále. n.s. [mace and ale.] Ale spiced with mace.
I prescribed him a draught of maceale, with hopes to dispose him to rest. Wiseman's Surgery.

Macebearer
Mácebearer. n.s. [mace and bear.] One who carries the mace before persons in authority.
I was placed at a quadrangular table, opposite to the macebearer. Spectator, № 617.

Macerate
To Mácerate. v.a. [macero, Latin; macerer, French.]

 To make lean; to wear away.
Recurrent pains of the stomach, megrims, and other recurrent head-aches, macerate the parts, and render the looks of patients consumptive and pining. Harvey on Consumptions.
 To mortify; to harrass with corporal hardships.
Covetous men are all fools: for what greater folly can there be, or madness, than for such a man to macerate himself when he need not? Burton on Melancholy.
Out of an excess of zeal they practise mortifications; whereby they macerate their bodies, and impair their health. Fiddes's Sermons.
 To steep almost to solution, either with or without heat.
In lotions in womens cases, he orders two portions of hellebore macerated in two cotylæ of water. Arbuthnot.

Maceration
Macerátion. n.s. [maceration, French; from macerate.]

 The act of wasting, or making lean.

 Mortification; corporal hardship.

 Maceration is an infusion either with or without heat, wherein the ingredients are intended to be almost wholly dissolved. Quincy.
The saliva serves for a maceration and dissolution of the meat into a chyle. Ray on Creation.

Machinal
Máchinal. adj. [from machina, Latin.] Relating to machines. Dict.

Machinate
To Máchinate. v.a. [machinor, Latin; machiner, Fr.] To plan; to contrive.

Machination
Machinátion. n.s. [machinatio, Lat. machination, French; from machinate.] Artifice; contrivance; malicious scheme.
                        If you miscarry,Your business of the world hath so an end,And machination ceases. Shakespeare's King Lear.
O from their machinations free,That would my guiltless soul betray;From those who in my wrongs agree,And for my life their engines lay. Sandy's Paraphrase.
Some one intent on mischief, or inspir'dWith dev'lish machination, might deviseLike instrument, to plague the sons of menFor sin; on war, and mutual slaughter bent. Milton.
Be frustrate all ye stratagems of hell,And devilish machinations come to nought. Milt. Par. Reg.
How were they zealous in respect to their temporal governors? Not by open rebellion, not by private machinations; but in blessing and submitting to their emperors, and obeying them in all things but their idolatry. Spratt's Sermons.

Machine
Machíne. n.s. [machina, Latin; machine, French. This word is pronounced masheen.]

 Any complicated piece of workmanship.
We are led to conceive this great machine of the world to have been once in a state of greater simplicity, as to conceive a watch to have been once in its first materials. Burnet.
In a watch's fine machine,The added movements which declareHow full the moon, how old the year,Derive their secundary pow'rFrom that which simply points the hour. Prior.
 An engine.
                        In the hollow side,Selected numbers of their soldiers hide;With inward arms the dire machine they load,And iron bowels stuff the dark abode. Dryden.
 Supernatural agency in poems.
The marvellous fable includes whatever is supernatural, and especially the machines of the gods. Pope.

Machinery
Machínery. n.s. [from machine.]

 Enginery; complicated workmanship; self-moved engines.

The machinery signifies that part which the deities, angels, or demons, act in a poem. Pope's Rape of the Lock.

Machinist
Máchinist. n.s. [machineste, French; from machina, Latin.] A constructor of engines or machines.

Macilency
Mácilency. n.s. [from macilent.] Leanness. Dict.

Macilent
Mácilent. adj. [macilentus, Latin.] Lean.

Mackerel
Máckerel. n.s. [mackereel, Dutch; maquereau, French.] A sea-fish.
Some fish are gutted, split, and kept in pickle; as whiting and mackerel. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
Law ordered that the Sunday should have rest;And that no nymph her noisy food should sell,Except it were new milk or mackarel. King's Art of Cookery.
Sooner shall cats disport in water clear,And speckled mackrels graze the meadows fair,Than I forget my shepherds wonted love. Gay's Pastorals.

Mackerel-gale
Mackerel-gale seems to be, in Dryden's cant, a strong breeze, such, I suppose, as is desired to bring mackerel fresh to market.
                    They put up every sail,The wind was fair, but blew a mackrel-gale. Dryden.

Macrocosm
Mácrocosm. n.s. [macrocosme, French; μακρὸς and κόσμος.] The whole world, or visible system, in opposition to the microcosm, or world of man.

Mactation
Mactátion. n.s. [mactatus, Latin.] The act of killing for sacrifice.

Macula
Macula. n.s. [Latin.]

 A spot.
And lastly, the body of the sun may contract some spots or maculæ greater than usual, and by that means be darkened. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
 [In physick.] Any spots upon the skin, whether those in fevers or scorbutick habits.

Maculate
To Máculate. v.a. [maculo, Lat.] To stain; to spot.

Maculation
Maculátion. n.s. [from maculate.] Stain; spot; taint.
I will throw my glove to death himself,That there's no maculation in thy heart. Shakespeare.

Macule
Mácule. n.s. [macula, Latin.] A spot; a stain.

Mad (adjective)
Mad. adj. [ʒemaad, Saxon; matto, Italian.]

 Disordered in the mind; broken in the understanding; distracted.
Alack, Sir, he is mad.— 'Tis the time's plague when madmen lead the blind. Shakespeare's King Lear.
                          The poets sung,Thy mother from the sea was sprung;But they were mad to make thee young. Denham.
We must bind our passions in chains, lest like mad-folks they break their locks and bolts, and do all the mischief they can. Taylor's Worthy Communicant.
A bear, enrag'd at the stinging of a bee, ran like mad into the bee-garden, and over-turn'd all the hives. L'Estrange.
Madmen ought not to be mad;But who can help his frenzy? Dryden's Span. Fryar.
 Over-run with any violent or unreasonable desire; with on, after, of, perhaps better for, before the object of desire.
It is the land of graven images, and they are mad upon their idols. Jer. l. 38.
The world is running mad after farce, the extremity of bad poetry, or rather the judgment that is fallen upon dramatick writing. Dryden's Pref. to Cleomenes.
The people are not so very mad of acorns, but that they could be content to eat the bread of civil persons. Rymer.
 Enraged; furious.
Holy writ represents St. Paul as making havock of the church, and persecuting that way unto the death, and being exceedingly mad against them. Decay of Piety.

Mad (noun)
Mad. n.s. [maðu, Saxon.] An earth worm. Ains.

Mad (verb active)
To Mad. v.a. [from the adjective.] To make mad; to make furious; to enrage.
O villain! cried out Zelmane, madded with finding an unlooked-for rival. Sidney, b. ii.
Had I but seen thy picture in this plight,It would have madded me. Shakesp. Titus Andronicus.
            This will witness outwardly,As strongly as the conscience do's within,To th' madding of her lord. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
This musick mads me, let it sound no more;For though it have help'd madmen to their wits,In me, it seems, it will make wisemen mad. Shakespeare.
This mads me, that perhaps ignoble handsHave overlaid him, for they cou'd not conquer. Dryden.

Mad (verb neuter)
To Mad. v.n. To be mad; to be furious.
                            The madding wheelsOf brazen chariots rag'd: dire was the noiseOf conflict! Milton's Par. Lost, b. vi.
            She, mixing with a throngOf madding matrons, bears the bride along. Dryden.

Madam
Mádam. n.s. [ma dame, French, my dame.] The term of compliment used in address to ladies of every degree.
Certes, madam, ye have great cause of plaint. Spenser.
Madam, once more you look and move a queen! Philip's Distrest Mother.

Madbrain
Mádbrain.Mádbrained.

adj. [mad and brain.] Disordered in the mind; hotheaded.


 I give my hand oppos'd against my heart,Unto a madbrain Rudesby, full of spleen. Shakespeare.
                        He let fall his book,And as he stoop'd again to take it up,This madbrain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff,That down fell priest and book. Shakespeare.
This fell tempest shall not cease to rage,Until the golden circuit on my head,Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,Do calm the fury of this madbrain'd flaw. Shakespeare.

Madbrained
Mádbrain.Mádbrained.

adj. [mad and brain.] Disordered in the mind; hotheaded.


 I give my hand oppos'd against my heart,Unto a madbrain Rudesby, full of spleen. Shakespeare.
                        He let fall his book,And as he stoop'd again to take it up,This madbrain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff,That down fell priest and book. Shakespeare.
This fell tempest shall not cease to rage,Until the golden circuit on my head,Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,Do calm the fury of this madbrain'd flaw. Shakespeare.

Madcap
Mádcap. n.s. [mad and cap; either taking the cap for the head, or alluding to the caps put upon distracted persons by way of distinction.] A madman; a wild hotbrained fellow.
That last is Biron, the merry madcap lord;Not a word with him but a jest. Shakespeare.
                    Where is his son,The nimble-footed madcap prince of Wales,And his comrades, that daft the world aside,And bid it pass. Shakespeare's Henry IV.

Madden (verb active)
To Mádden. v.a. To make mad.
Such mad'ning draughts of beauty,As for a while overwhelm'd his raptur'd thought. Thomson.

Madden (verb neuter)
To Mádden. v.n. [from mad.] To become mad; to act as mad.
The dog-star rages, nay 'tis past a doubt,All Bedlam or Parnassus is let out;Fire in each eye, and papers in each hand,They rave, recite, and madden round the land. Pope.

Madder
Mádder. n.s. [madere, Saxon.]
The flower of the madder consists of one single leaf, which is cut into four or five segments, and expanded at the top; the flower-cup afterwards becomes a fruit, composed of two juicy berries closely joined together, containing seed for the most part, hollowed like a navel; the leaves are rough, and surround the stalks in whorles. Miller.
Madder is cultivated in vast quantities in Holland: what the Dutch send over for medicinal use is the root, which is only dried; but the greatest quantity is used by the dyers, who have it sent in coarse powder. Hill.

Made
Made, participle preterite of make.
Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents; but that the works of God should be made manifest. John ix. 3.

Madefaction
Madefáction. n.s. [madefacio, Latin.] The act of making wet.
To all madefaction there is required an imbibition. Bacon.

Madefy
To Mádefy. v.a. [madefio, Latin.] To moisten; to make wet.

Madgehowlet
Madgehowlet. n.s. An owl. Ains.

Madhouse
Mádhouse. n.s. [mad and house.] A house where madmen are cured or confined.
A fellow in a madhouse being asked how he came there? why, says he, the mad-folks abroad are too many for us, and so they have mastered all the sober people, and cooped them up here. L'Estrange.

Madly
Mádly. adv. [from mad.] Without understanding; furiously.
He wav'd a torch aloft, and madly vain,Sought godlike worship from a servile train. Dryden.

Madman
Mádman. n.s. [mad and man.] A man deprived of his understanding.
They shall be like madmen, sparing none, but still sporting. 2 Esd. xvi. 71.
He that eagerly pursues any thing, is no better than a madman. L'Estrange.
He who ties a madman's hands, or takes away his sword, loves his person while he disarms his frenzy. South's Sermons.

Madness
Mádness. n.s. [from mad.]

 Distraction; loss of understanding; perturbation of the faculties.
Why, woman, your husband is in his old tunes again: he so rails against all married mankind, so curses all Eve's daughters, and so buffets himself on the forehead, that any madness I ever yet beheld seemed but tameness and civility to this distemper. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
There are degrees of madness as of folly, the disorderly jumbling ideas together, in some more, some less. Locke.
 Fury; wildness; rage.
The power of God sets bounds to the raging of the sea, and restrains the madness of the people. King Charles.
He rav'd with all the madness of despair,He roar'd, he beat his breast, and tore his hair. Dryden.

Madrier
Madríer. n.s.
Madrier, in war, a thick plank armed with iron plates, having a cavity sufficient to receive the mouth of the petard when charged, with which it is applied against a gate, or other thing intended to be broken down. Bailey.

Madrigal
Mádrigal. n.s. [madrigal, Spanish and French, from mandra, Latin; whence it was written anciently mandriale, Italian.] A pastoral song.
A madrigal is a little amorous piece, which contains a certain number of unequal verses, not tied to the scrupulous regularity of a sonnet, or subtilty of an epigram: it consists of one single rank of verses, and in that differs from a canzonet, which consists of several strophes, which return in the same order and number. Bailey.
                    Waters, by whose fallsBirds sing melodious madrigals. Shakespeare.
His artful strains have oft delay'dThe huddling brook to hear his madrigal. Milton.
Their tongue is light and trifling in comparison of the English; more proper for sonnets, madrigals, and elegies, than heroick poetry. Dryden.

Madwort
Mádwort. n.s. [mad and wort.] An herb.

Maere
Mære. adv. It is derived from the Saxon mer, famous, great, noted: so ælmere is all famous; ætheimere, famous for nobility. Gibson's Camden.

Maffle
To Máffle. v.n. To stammer. Ains.

Maffler
Maffler. n.s. [from the verb.] A stammerer. Ains.

Magazine
Magazíne. n.s. [magazine, French, from the Arabick machsan, a treasure.]

 A storehouse, commonly an arsenal or armoury, or repository of provisions.
If it should appear fit to bestow shipping in those harbours, it shall be very needful that there be a magazine of all necessary provisions and munitions.Raleigh's Essays.
Plain heroick magnitude of mind;Their armories and magazines contemns. Milton's Agonist.
Some o'er the publick magazines preside,And some are sent new forage to provide. Dryden's Virg.
Useful arms in magazines we place,All rang'd in order, and disposed with grace. Pope.
His head was so well stored a magazine, that nothing could be proposed which he was not master of. Locke.
 Of late this word has signified a miscellaneous pamphlet, from a periodical miscellany named the Gentleman's Magazine, by Edward Cave.

Mage
Mage. n.s. [magus, Latin.] A magician. Spenser.

Maid (1)
Maid.Maíden.

n.s. [mæden, mæʒden, Saxon, maegd, Dutch.]



 An unmarried woman; a virgin.
             Your wives, your daughters, Your matrons, and your maids, could not fill up The cistern of my lust. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 This is a man old, wrinkl'd, faded, wither'd, And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is. Shakespeare.
                 I am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden's eyes. Shakespeare.
 She employed the residue of her life to repairing of highways, building of bridges, and endowing of maidens. Carew.
 Your deluded wife had been a maid; Down on the bridal bed a maid she lay, A maid she rose at the  approaching day. Dryden's Juv.
             Let me die, she said, Rather than lose the spotless name of maid. Dryden.
 A woman servant.
 My maid Nerissa and myself, mean time, Will live as maids and widows. Shakesp. Merch. of Venice.
 Old Tancred visited his daughter's bow'r; Her cheek, for such his custom was, he kiss'd, Then bless'd her kneeling, and her maids dismiss'd. Dryd.
 Her closet and the gods share all her time, Except when, only by some maids attended, She seeks some shady solitary grove. Rowe.
 A thousand maidens ply the purple loom, To weave the bed, and deck the regal room. Prior.
 Female.
 If she bear a maid child. Lev. xii. 5.

Maid (2)
Maid. n.s. A species of skate fish.

Maiden (adjective)
Máiden. adj.

 Consisting of virgins.
 Nor was there one of all the nymphs that rov'd O'er Mænalus, amid the maiden throng More favour'd once. Addison's Ovid's Metamorph.
 Fresh; new; unused; unpolluted.
 He fleshed his maiden sword. Shakespeare.
 When I am dead, strew me o'er With maiden flowers, that all the world may know I was a chaste wife to my grave. Shakesp. Henry VIII.
 By this maiden blossom in my hand I scorn thee and thy fashion. Shakesp. Henry VI.

Maiden (noun)
Maid.Maíden.

n.s. [mæden, mæʒden, Saxon, maegd, Dutch.]



 An unmarried woman; a virgin.
             Your wives, your daughters, Your matrons, and your maids, could not fill up The cistern of my lust. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
 This is a man old, wrinkl'd, faded, wither'd, And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is. Shakespeare.
                 I am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden's eyes. Shakespeare.
 She employed the residue of her life to repairing of highways, building of bridges, and endowing of maidens. Carew.
 Your deluded wife had been a maid; Down on the bridal bed a maid she lay, A maid she rose at the  approaching day. Dryden's Juv.
             Let me die, she said, Rather than lose the spotless name of maid. Dryden.
 A woman servant.
 My maid Nerissa and myself, mean time, Will live as maids and widows. Shakesp. Merch. of Venice.
 Old Tancred visited his daughter's bow'r; Her cheek, for such his custom was, he kiss'd, Then bless'd her kneeling, and her maids dismiss'd. Dryd.
 Her closet and the gods share all her time, Except when, only by some maids attended, She seeks some shady solitary grove. Rowe.
 A thousand maidens ply the purple loom, To weave the bed, and deck the regal room. Prior.
 Female.
 If she bear a maid child. Lev. xii. 5.

Make (verb active)
To Make. v.a. [macan, Saxon; machen, German; maken, Dutch.]

 To create.
Let us make man in our image. Gen. i. 26.
The Lord hath made all things for himself. Prov. xvi. 4.
                    Remember'st thouThy making, while the maker gave thee being. Milton.
 To form of materials.
He fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf. Exod. xxxii. 4.
God hath made of one blood all nations of men. Acts.
We have no other measure, save one of the moon, but are artificially made out of these by compounding or dividing them. Holder on Time.
 To compose: as, materials or ingredients.
One of my fellows had the speed of him;Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely moreThan would make up his message. Shakesp. Macbeth.
The heav'n, the air, the earth, and boundless sea,Make but one temple for the deity. Waller.
A pint of salt of tartar, exposed unto a moist air, will make far more liquor than the former measure will contain. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. ii.
 To form by art what is not natural.
There lavish nature, in her best attire,Pours forth sweet odours, and alluring sights;And art with her contending, doth aspireT' excel the natural with made delights. Spenser.
 To produce as the agent.
She may give so much credit to her own laws, as to make their sentence weighter than any bare and naked conceit to the contrary. Hooker, b. v.
If I suspect without cause, why then make sport at me; then let me be your jest. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
Thine enemies make a tumult. Psal. lxxxiii. 2.
When their hearts were merry they said, Call for Sampson, that he may make us sport. Judg. xvi. 25.
Give unto Solomon a perfect heart to build the palace for the which I have made provision. 1 Chron. xxix. 19.
Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead. Mark v. 39.
He maketh intercession to God against Israel. Rom. xi. 2.
Thou hast set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and hast made thee a name. Jer. xxxii. 20.
Shall we then make mirth? Ezek. xxi. 10.
Joshua made peace, and made a league with them to let them live. Josh. ix. 15.
                    Both combineTo make their greatness by the fall of man. Dryden.
Egypt, mad with superstition grown,Makes gods of monsters. Tate's Juvenal.
 To produce as a cause.
Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour. Prov. xix. 4.
A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men. Prov. xviii. 16.
The child who is taught to believe any occurrence to be a good or evil omen, or any day of the week lucky, hath a wide inroad made upon the soundness of his understanding. Watts.
 To do; to perform; to practise; to use.
Though she appear honest to me, yet in other places she enlargeth her mirth so far, that there is shrewd construction made of her. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
She made haste, and let down her pitcher. Gen. xxiv. 46.
Thou hast made an atonement for it. Exod. xxix. 36.
I will judge his house for ever, because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. 1 Sam. iii. 13.
We made prayer unto our God. Neh. iv. 9.
He shall make a speedy riddance of all in the land. Zeph.
They all began to make excuse. Luke xiv. 18.
It hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor. Rom. xv. 26.
Make full proof of thy ministry. 2 Tim. iv. 5.
The Venetians, provoked by the Turks with divers injuries, both by sea and land, resolved, without delay, to make war likewise upon him. Knolles's Hist. of the Turks.
Such musick as before was never made,But when of old the sons of morning sung. Milton.
All the actions of his life were ripped up and surveyed, and all malicious glosses made upon all he had said, and all he had done. Clarendon.
Says Carneades, since neither you nor I love repetitions, I shall not now make any of what else was urged against Themistius. Boyle.
The Phœnicians made claim to this man as theirs, and attributed to him the invention of letters. Hale.
What hope, O Pantheus! whether can we run?Where make a stand? and what may yet be done? Dryd.
While merchants make long voyages by seaTo get estates, he cuts a shorter way. Dryden's Juv.
To what end did Ulysses make that journey? Æneas undertook it by the express commandment of his father's ghost. Dryden's Dedication to the Æneis.
He that will make a good use of any part of his life, must allow a large portion of it to recreation. Locke.
                Make some request, and I,Whate'er it be, with that request comply. Addison.
Were it permitted, he should make the tour of the whole system of the sun. Arbuthnot and Pope's Mart. Scrib.
 To cause to have any quality.
I will make your cities waste. Lev. xxvi. 31.
Her husband hath utterly made them void on the day he heard them. Num. xxx. 12.
When he had made a convenient room, he set it in a wall, and made it fast with iron. Wisd. xiii. 15.
Jesus came into Cana, where he made the water wine. John iv. 46.
He was the more inflamed with the desire of battle with Waller, to make even all accounts. Clarendon, b. viii.
I bred you up to arms, rais'd you to power,Permitted you to fight for this usurper;All to make sure the vengeance of this day,Which even this day has ruin'd. Dryden's Spanish Fryar.
In respect of actions within the reach of such a power in him, a man seems as free as it is possible for freedom to make him. Locke.
 To bring into any state or condition.
I have made thee a god to Pharaoh. Exod. vii. 1.
Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel. Gen. xlvi. 29.
Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Exod. ii.
Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants. Gen. xxxiv. 30.
He made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. Phil. ii. 7.
He should be made manifest to Israel. John i. 31.
Though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more. 1 Cor. ix. 19.
He hath made me a by-word of the people, and aforetime I was as a tabret. Job xvii. 6.
Make ye him drunken; for he magnified himself against the Lord. Jer. xlviii. 26.
Joseph was not willing to make her a publick example. Matt. i. 19.
By the assistance of this faculty we have all those ideas in our understandings, which, though we do not actually contemplate, yet we can bring in sight, and make appear again, and be the objects of our thoughts. Locke.
The Lacedemonians trained up their children to hate drunkenness by bringing a drunken man into their company, and shewing them what a beast he made of himself. Watts.
 To form; to settle.
Those who are wise in courtsMake friendships with the ministers of state,Nor seek the ruins of a wretched exile. Rowe.
 To hold; to keep.
Deep in a cave the sybil makes abode. Dryden.
 To secure from distress; to establish in riches or happiness.
He hath given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition. Shakespeare.
                This is the night,That either makes me, or foredoes me quite. Shakesp.
Each element his dread command obeys,Who makes or ruins with a smile or frown,Who as by one he did our nation raise,So now he with another pulls us down. Dryden.
 To suffer; to incur.
The loss was private that I made;'Twas but myself I lost; I lost no legions. Dryden.
He accuseth Neptune unjustly, who makes shipwreck a second time. Bacon.
 To commit.
She was in his company at Page's house, and what they made there I know not. Shakespeare.
I will neither plead my age nor sickness in excuse of the faults which I have made. Dryden.
 To compel; to force; to constrain.
That the soul in a sleeping man should be this moment busy a thinking, and the next moment in a waking man not remember those thoughts, would need some better proof than bare assertion to make it be believed. Locke.
They should be made to rise at their early hour; but great care should be taken in waking them, that it be not done hastily. Locke.
 To intend; to purpose to do.
He may ask this civil question, friend!What dost thou make a shipboard? to what end? Dryden.
Gomez; what mak'st thou here with a whole brotherhood of city-bailiffs? Dryden's Spanish Fryar.
 To raise as profit from any thing.
He's in for a commodity of brown pepper; of which he made five marks ready money. Shakespeare.
Did I make a gain of you by any of them I sent. 2 Cor.
If Auletes, who was a negligent prince, made so much, what must now the Romans make, who govern it so wisely. Arbuthnot on Coins.
If it is meant of the value of the purchase, it was very high; it being hardly possible to make so much of land, unless it was reckoned at a very low price. Arbuthnot.
 To reach; to tend to; to arrive at.
Acosta recordeth, they that fail in the middle can make no land of either side. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. vi.
                I've made the port already,And laugh securely at the lazy storm. Dryden.
            They ply their shatter'd oarsTo nearest land, and make the Libyan shoars. Dryden.
Did I but purpose to embark with thee,While gentle zephyrs play in prosp'rous gales;But would forsake the ship, and make the shoar,When the winds whistle, and the tempests roar? Prior.
 To gain.
The wind came about, and settled in the west for many days, so as we could make little or no way. Bacon.
                        I have made wayTo some Philistian lords, with whom to treat. Milton.
Now mark a little why Virgil is so much concerned to make this marriage, it was to make way for the divorce which be intended afterwards. Dryden's Æn.
 To force; to gain by force.
Rugged rocks are interpos'd in vain;He makes his way o'er mountains, and contemnsUnruly torrents, and unforded streams. Dryden's Virg.
The stone wall which divides China from Tartary, is reckoned nine hundred miles long, running over rocks, and making way for rivers through mighty arches. Temple.
 To exhibit.
When thou makest a dinner, call not thy friends but the poor. Luke xiv. 12.
 To pay; to give.
He shall make amends for the harm that he hath done. Lev.
 To put; to place.
You must make a great difference between Hercules's labours by land, and Jason's voyage by sea for the golden fleece. Bacon's War with Spain.
 To turn to some use.
                    Whate'er they catch,Their fury makes an instrument of war. Dryden's Æn.
 To incline; to dispose.
It is not requisite they should destroy our reason, that is, to make us rely on the strength of nature, when she is least able to relieve us. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. iv.
 To prove as an argument.
Seeing they judge this to make nothing in the world for them. Hooker, b. ii.
You conceive you have no more to do than, having found the principal word in a concordance, introduce as much of the verse as will serve your turn, though in reality it makes nothing for you. Swift.
 To represent; to show.
He is not that goose and ass that Valla would make him. Baker's Reflections on Learning.
 To constitute.
Our desires carry the mind out to absent good, according to the necessity which we think there is of it, to the making or encrease of our happiness. Locke.
 To amount to.
Whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man's person. Gal. ii. 16.
 To mould; to form.
Lye not erect but hollow, which is in the making of the bed; or with the legs gathered up, which is the more wholesome. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
                Some undeserved faultI'll find about the making of the bed. Shakespeare.
They mow fern green, and burning of them to ashes, make the ashes up into balls with a little water. Mortimer.
 To Make away. To kill; to destroy.
He will not let slip any advantage to make away him whose just title, enobled by courage and goodness, may one day shake the seat of a never-secure tyranny. Sidney, b. ii.
The duke of Clarence, lieutenant of Ireland, was, by practice of evil persons about the king his brother, called thence away, and soon after, by sinister means, was clean made away. Spenser on Ireland.
            He may have a likely guess,How these were they that made away his brother. Shakesp.
Trajan would say of the vain jealousy of princes that seek to make away those that aspire to their succession, that there was never king that did put to death his successor. Bacon.
My mother I slew at my very birth, and since have made away two of her brothers, and happily to make way for the purposes of others against myself. Hayward.
Give poets leave to make themselves away. Roscommon.
What multitude of infants have been made away by those who brought them into the world. Addison.
 To Make away. To transfer.
                        Debtors,When they never mean to pay,To some friend make all away. Waller.
 To Make account. To reckon; to believe.
They made no account but that the navy should be absolutely master of the seas. Bacon's War with Spain.
 To Make account of. To esteem; to regard.

 To Make free with. To treat without ceremony.
The same who have made free with the greatest names in church and state, and exposed to the world the private misfortunes of families. Dunciad.
 To Make good. To maintain; to defend; to justify.
The grand master, guarded with a company of most valiant knights, drove them out again by force, and made good the place. Knolles's Hist. of the Turks.
When he comes to make good his confident undertaking, he is fain to say things that agree very little with one another. Boyle.
I'll either die, or I'll make good the place. Dryden.
As for this other argument, that by pursuing one single they gain an advantage to express, and work up, the passions, I wish any example he could bring from them could make it good. Dryden on dramatick Poesy.
I will add what the same author subjoins to make good his foregoing remark. Locke on Education.
 To Make good. To fulfil; to accomplish.
This letter doth make good the friar's words. Shakesp.
 To Make light of. To consider as of no consequence.
They made light of it, and went their ways. Matt. xxii. 5.
 To Make love. To court; to play the gallant.
How happy each of the sexes would be, if there was a window in the breast of every one that makes or receives love. Addison's Guardian, № 106.
 To Make merry. To feast; to partake of an entertainment.
A hundred pound or two, to make merry withal? Shakesp.
The king, to make demonstration to the world, that the proceedings against Sir William Stanley, imposed upon him by necessity of state, had not diminished the affection he bare to his brother, went to Latham, to make merry with his mother and the earl. Bacon's Henry VIIth.
A gentleman and his wife will ride to make merry with his neighbour, and after a day those two go to a third; in which progress they encrease like snowballs, till through their burthensome weight they break. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
 To make much of. To cherish; to foster.
The king hearing of their adventure, suddenly falls to take pride in making much of them, extolling them with infinite praises. Sidney, b. ii.
                    The bird is deadThat we have made so much on! Shakesp. Cymbeline.
It is good discretion not to make too much of any man at the first. Bacon's Essays.
The easy and the lazy make much of the gout; and yet making much of themselves too, they take care to carry it presently to bed, and keep it warm. Temple.
 To Make of. What to make of, is, how to understand.
That they should have knowledge of the languages and affairs of those that lie at such a distance from them, was a thing we could not tell what to make of. Bacon.
I past the summer here at Nimmeguen, without the least remembrance of what had happened to me in the spring, till about the end of September, and then I began to feel a pain I knew not what to make of, in the same joint of my other foot. Temple.
There is another statue in brass of Apollo, with a modern inscription on the pedestal, which I know not what to make of. Addison on Italy.
I desired he would let me see his book: he did so, smiling: I could not make any thing of it. Tatler.
Upon one side of the pillar were huge pieces of iron sticking out, cut into strange figures, which we knew not what to make of. Gulliver's Travels.
 To Make of. To produce from; to effect.
I am astonished, that those who have appeared against this paper have made so very little of it. Addison.
 To Make of. To consider; to account; to esteem.
Makes she no more of me than of a slave? Dryden.
 To Make of. To cherish; to foster.
Xaycus was wonderfully beloved, and made of, by the Turkish merchants, whose language he had learned. Knolles.
 To Make over. To settle in the hands of trustees.
Widows, who have tried one lover,Trust none again till th' have made over. Hudibras, p. iii.
The wise betimes make over their estates.Make o'er thy honour by a deed of trust,And give me seizure of the mighty wealth. Dryden.
 To Make over. To transfer.
The second mercy made over to us by the second covenant, is the promise of pardon. Hammond.
Age and youth cannot be made over: nothing but time can take away years, or give them. Collier.
My waist is reduced to the depth of four inches by what I have already made over to my neck. Addison's Guard.
Moor, to whom that patent was made over, was forced to leave off coining. Swift.
 To Make out. To clear; to explain; to clear to one's self.
Make out the rest, — I am disorder'd so,I know not farther what to say or do. Dryd. Indian Emp.
Antiquaries make out the most ancient medals from a letter with great difficulty to be discerned upon the face and reverse. Felton on the Classicks.
It may seem somewhat difficult to make out the bills of fare for some suppers. Arbuthnot on Coins.
 To Make out. To prove; to evince.
There is no truth which a man may more evidently make out to himself, than the existence of a God. Locke.
Though they are not self-evident principles, yet what may be made out form them by a wary deduction, may be depended on as certain and infallible truths. Locke.
Men of wit and parts, but of short thoughts and little meditation, are apt to distrust every thing for fiction that is not the dictate of sense, or made out immediately to their senses. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
We are to vindicate the just providence of God in the government of the world, and to endeavour, as well as we can, upon an imperfect view of things, to make out the beauty and harmony of all the seeming discords and irregularities of the divine administration. Tillotson's Sermons.
Scaliger hath made out, that the history of Troy was no more the invention of Homer than of Virgil. Dryden.
In the passages from our own divines, most of the reasonings which make out both my propositions are already suggested. Atterbury's Sermons.
I dare engage to make it out, that, instead of contributing equal to the landed men, they will have their full principal and interest at six per Cent. Swift's Miscel.
 To Make sure of. To consider as certain.
They made as sure of health and life, as if both of them were at their dispose. Dryden.
 To Make sure of. To secure to one's possession.
But whether marriage bring joy or sorrow,Make sure of this day, and hang to-morrow. Dryden.
 To Make up. To get together.
How will the farmer be able to make up his rent at quarter-day? Locke.
 To Make up. To reconcile; to repair.
This kind of comprehension in scripture being therefore received, still there is no doubt how far we are to proceed by collection before the full and complete measure of things necessary be made up. Hooker, b. i.
I knew when seven justices could not make up a quarrel. Shakespeare's As you like it.
 To Make up. To repair.
I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land. Ezek.
 To compose, as of ingredients.
These are the lineaments of this vice of flattery, which sure do together make up a face of most extreme deformity. Government of the Tongue.
He is to encounter an enemy made up of wiles and stratagems; an old serpent, and a long experienced deceiver. South's Sermons.
Zeal should be made up of the largest measures of spiritual love, desire, hope, hatred, grief, indignation. Sprat.
Oh he was all made up of love and charms;Whatever maid could wish, or man admire. Addison.
Harlequin's part is made up of blunders and absurdities. Addison's Remarks on Italy.
Vines, figs, oranges, almonds, olives, myrtles, and fields of corn, make up the most delightful little landskip imaginable. Addison on Italy.
Old mould'ring urns, racks, daggers, and distress,Make up the frightful horror of the place. Garth.
The parties among us are made up on one side of moderate whigs, and on the other of presbyterians. Swift.
 To Make up. To shape.
A catapotium is a medicine swallowed solid, and most commonly made up in pills. Arbuthnot on Coins.
 To Make up. To supply; to repair.
Whatsoever, to make up the doctrine of man's salvation, is added as in supply of the scripture's insufficiency, we reject it. Hooker, b. ii.
I borrowed that celebrated name for an evidence to my subject, that so what was wanting in my proof might be made up in the example. Glanville's Scep.
Thus think the crowd, who, eager to engage,Take quickly fire, and kindle into rage;Who ne'er consider, but without a pauseMake up in a passion what they want in cause. Dryden.
If they retrench any the smaller particulars in there ordinary expence, it will easily make up the halfpenny a-day which we have now under consideration. Addison's Spect.
This wisely she makes up her time,Mis-spent when youth was in its prime. Granville.
There must needs be another state to make up the inequalities of this, and to salve all irregular appearances. Atterbury.
If his romantick disposition transport him so far as to expect little or nothing from this, he might however hope, that the principals would make it up in dignity and respect. Swift.
 To Make up. To clear.
The reasons you allege, do more conduceTo the hot passion of distemper'd blood,Than to make up a free determination'Twixt right and wrong. Shakesp. Troil. and Cressida.
        Though all at once cannotSee what I do deliver out to each,Yet I can make my audit up, that allFrom me do back receive the flow'r of all,And leave me but the bran. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
He was to make up his accounts with his lord, and by an easy undiscoverable cheat he could provide against the impending distress. Roger's Sermons.
 To Make up. To accomplish; to conclude; to complete.
Is not the lady Constance in this troop?— I know she is not; for this match made up,Her presence would have interrupted much. Shakespeare.
On Wednesday the general account is made up and printed, and on Thursday published. Graunt's Bill of Mortality.
This life is a scene of vanity, that soon passes away, and affords no solid satisfaction but in the consciousness of doing well, and in the hopes of another life: this is what I can say upon experience, and what you will find to be true when you come to make up the account. Locke.

Malt
Malt. n.s. [mealt, Saxon; mout, Dutch.] Grain steeped in water and fermented, then dried on a kiln.
Beer hath malt first infused in the liquour, and is afterwards boiled with the hop. Bacon's Nat. Hist. № 308.

Mammon
Mámmon. n.s. [Syriack.] Riches.

Man (noun)
Man. n.s. [man, mon, Saxon.]

 Human being.
The king is but a man as I am; the violet smells to him as it doth to me; the element shews to him as it doth to me, all his senses have but human conditions. Shakesp.
All the west bank of Nilus is possessed by an idolatrous, man-eating nation. Brerewood on Languages.
A creature of a more exalted kindWas wanted yet, and then was man design'd,Conscious of thought. Dryden's Ovid.
Nature in man capacious souls hath wrought,And given them voice expressive of their thought;In man the God descends, and joys to findThe narrow image of his greater mind. Creech's Manilius.
A combination of the ideas of a certain figure, with the powers of motion, and reasoning joined to substance, make the ordinary idea of a man. Locke.
On human actions reason though you can,It may be reason, but it is not man. Pope's Epistles.
 Not a woman.
Bring forth men children only!For thy undaunted metal should composeNothing but males. Shakespeare's King Lear.
I had not so much of man in me,But all my mother came into mine eyes,And gave me up to tears. Shakespeare's Henry V.
Every man child shall be circumcised. Gen. xvii. 10.
Ceneus, a woman once, and once a man,But ending in the sex she first began. Dryden's Æn.
A long time since the custom began, among people of quality, to keep men cooks of the French nation. Swift.
 Not a boy.
The nurse's legends are for truths receiv'd,And the man dreams but what the boy believ'd. Drydan.
 A servant; an attendant; a dependant.
Now thanked be the great god Pan,Which thus preserves my loved life,Thanked be I that keep a man,Who ended hath this bloody strife:For if my man must praises have,What then must I that keep the knave? Sidney, b. i.
            My brother's servantsWere then my fellows, now they are my men. Shakesp.
Such gentlemen as are his majesty's own sworn servants should be preferred to the charge of his majesty's ships; choice being made of men of valour and capacity rather than to employ other mens men. Raleigh's Essays.
I and my man will presently go rideFar as the Cornish mount. Cowley.
 A word of familiarity bordering on contempt.
You may partake of any thing we say:We speak no treason, man. Shakesp. Richard III.
 It is used in a loose signification like the French on, one, any one.
This same young sober-blooded boy doth not love me, nor a man cannot make him laugh. Shakesp. Henry IV.
A man in an instant may discover the assertion to be impossible. More's Divine Dialogues.
He is a good-natured man, and will give as much as a man would desire. Stillingfleet.
By ten thousand of them a man shall not be able to advance one step in knowledge. Tillotson's Sermons.
Our thoughts will not be directed what objects to pursue, nor be taken off from those they have once fixed on; but run away with a man, in pursuit of those ideas they have in view. Locke.
A man would expect to find some antiquities; but all they have to show of this nature is an old rostrum of a Roman ship. Addison.
A man might make a pretty landscape of his own plantation. Addison.
 One of uncommon qualifications.
Manners maketh man. William of Wickham.
I dare do all that may become a man;Who dares do more is none.            — What beast was't thenThat made you break this enterprise to me?When you durst do it, then you were a man;And, to be more than what you were, you wouldBe so much more the man. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
He tript me behind, being down, insulted, rail'd,And put upon him such a deal of man,That worthied him. Shakespeare's King Lear.
Will reckons he should not have been the man he is, had not he broke windows, and knocked down constables, when he was a young fellow. Addison's Spect. № 105.
 A human being qualified in any particular manner.
Thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. 1 Sam. xvii. 33.
 Individual.
In matters of equity between man and man, our Saviour has taught us to put my neighbour in the place of myself, and myself in the place of my neighbour. Watt's Logick.
 Not a beast.
Thy face, bright Centaur, autumn's heats retain,The softer season suiting to the man. Creech's Manilius.
 Wealthy or independant person: to this sense some refer the following passage of Shakespeare, others to the sense next foregoing.
There would this monster make a man; any strange beast there makes a man. Shakespeare's Tempest.
What poor man would not carry a great burthen of gold to be made a man for ever. Tillotson's Sermons.
 When a person is not in his senses, we say, he is not his own man. Ains.

 A moveable piece at chess or draughts.

 Man of war. A ship of war.
A Flemish man of war lighted upon them, and overmastered them. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.

Man (verb)
To Man. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To furnish with men.
Your ships are not well mann'd;Your mariners are muliteers, or reapers. Shakespeare.
A navy, to secure the seas, is mann'd;And forces sent. Daniel's Civil War.
It hath been agreed, that either of them should send certain ships to sea well manned, and apparelled to fight. Hayward.
Their ships go as long voyages as any, and are for their burdens as well manned. Raleigh's Essays.
He had manned it with a great number of tall soldiers, more than for the proportion of the castle. Bacon.
They man their boats, and all their young men arm. Waller.
The Venetians could set out thirty men of war, a hundred gallies, and ten galeases; though I cannot conceive how they could man a fleet of half the number. Addison on Italy.
Timoleon forced the Carthaginians out, though they had manned out a fleet of two hundred men of war. Arbuthnot.
 To guard with men.
See, how the surly Warwick mans the wall. Shakesp.
There stands the castle by yond tuft of trees,Mann'd with three hundred men. Shakesp. Richard II.
The summons take of the same trumpet's call,To sally from one port, or man one publick wall. Tate.
 To fortify; to strengthen.
Advise how war may be best upheld,Mann'd by her two main nerves, iron and gold,In all her equipage. Milton.
Theodosius having mann'd his sould with proper reflexions, exerted himself in the best manner he could, to animate his penitent. Addison's Spect. № 164.
 To tame a hawk.
Another way I have to man my haggard,To make her come, and know her keeper's call;That is, to watch her. Shakespeare.
 To attend; to serve; to wait on.
Thou whoreson mandrake, thou art fitter to be worn in my cap than to wait at my heels: I was never manned with agate till now. Shakespeare's Henry IV.
They distill their husbands landIn decoctions, and are mann'dWith ten empyricks in their chamber,Lying for the spirit of amber. Benj. Johnson's Forest.
 To direct in hostility; to point; to aim. An obsolete word.
Man but a rush against Othello's breast,And he retires. Shakespeare's Othello.

Manacle
To Mánacle. v.a. [from the noun.] To chain the hands; to shackle.
            We'll bait thy bears to death,And manacle the bearward in their chains. Shakespeare.
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together. Shakespeare.
Is it thus you use this monarch, to manacle and shackle him hand and foot. Arbuthnot and Pope's Mart. Scrib.

Manacles
Mánacles. n.s. [manicles, French, manicæ from manus, Latin.] Chain for the hands; shackles.
For my sake wear this glove;It is a manacle of love. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
                        ThouMust, as a foreign recreant, be ledWith manacles along our street. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
                    Such a personCould fetch your brother from the manaclesOf the all-holding law. Shakesp. Meas. for Measure.
Doctrine unto fools is as fetters on the feet, and like manacles on the right-hand. Ecclus. xxi. 19.
The bounds of the law good men count their ornament and protection; others, their manacles and oppression. King Charles.

Manna
Mánna. n.s.
Manna is properly a gum, and is honey-like juice concreted into a solid form, seldom so dry but it adheres more or less to the fingers in handling: its colour is whitish, yellowish, or brownish, and it has in taste the sweetness of sugar, and with it a sharpness that renders it very agreeable: we are supplied with manna from Calabria and Sicily, which is the product of two different trees, but which are of the same genus, being both varieties of the ash: when the heats of summer are free from rain, the leaves, the trunks, and branches of both these trees, exsudate a white honey juice, which concretes into what we call manna, forming itself as it runs, and according to its different quantity, into small roundish drops, or long flakes: what flows out of the leaves of these trees is all natural, but the Italians procure a forced kind by wounding the trunks and branches: the finest manna of all is that which oozes naturally out of the leaves in August, after the season of collecting the common manna is over: the French have another sort of manna, produced from the larch tree, of a very different genus of the ash, and the very tree which produces oil of turpentine; this is called Briançon manna, from the country where it is produced: our black thorn, or sloe tree, sometimes yield a true manna from the ribs of the leaves in Autumn, but it is in a very small quantity: there is another sort called the manna Persia, produced from a small prickly shrub about four or five feet high, growing in Egypt, Armenia, Georgia, and Persia. The Hebrews, who had been acquainted with the last mentioned sort of manna, when they found a miraculous food in the desert resembling it, did not scruple to call it manna: this was a conjecture the more natural to them, as they saw plainly that this descended from the heavens in form of a dew, and concreted into the globules in which they found it; and the received opinion at the time was, that the Oriental manna was formed in the same manner; that it was a dew from the clouds concreted on the plant, none supposing, in those early times, that it was the natural juice of the shrub upon which it was found: it is however evident, that this was not of the nature of manna, because it melted away as the sun grew hot, whereas manna hardens in that heaet. It is but lately that the world was convinced of the mistake of manna being an aërial produce, by an experiment being made by covering a tree with sheets in the manna season, and the finding as much manna on it afterwards as on those which were open to the air and dew.  Manna is celebrated, both by the ancients and moderns, as a gentle and mild cathartick. Hill.
 It would be well inquired, whether manna doth fall but upon certain herbs, or leaves only. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 The manna in heaven will suit every man's palate. Locke.

Manner


Mannerliness


Mannerly (adjective)


Mannerly (adverb)


Mannikin
Mánnikin. n.s. [man and klein, German.] A little man; a dwarf.

Mannish


Manor
Manor. n.s. [manoir, old French; manerium, low Latin; maner, Armorick.]
Manor signifies, in common law, a rule or government which a man hath over such as bold land within his fee. Touching the original of these manors, it seems, that, in the beginning, there was a certain compass or circuit of ground granted by the king to some men of worth, for him and his heirs to dwell upon, and to exercise some jurisdiction, more or less, within that compass, as he thought good to grant; performing him such services, and paying such yearly rent for the same, as he by his grant required: and that afterward this great man parcelled his land to other meaner men, injoining them again such services and rents as he thought good; and by that means, as he became tenant to the king, so the inferiours became tenants to him: but those great men, or their posterity, have alienated these mansions and lands so given them by their prince, and many for capital offences have forfeited them to the king; and thereby they still remain in the crown, or are bestowed again upon others. But whosoever possesses these manors, the liberty belonging to them is real and predial, and therefore remains, though the owners be changed. In these days, a manor rather signifies the jurisdiction and royalty incorporeal, than the land or site: for a man may have a manor in gross, as the law terms it, that is, the right and interest of a court-baron, with the perquisites thereto belonging. Cowel.
 My parks, my walks, my manors that I had, Ev'n now forsake me; and of all my lands Is nothing left me. Shakespeare's Henry VI.
                         Kinsmen of mine, By this so sicken'd their estates, that never They shall abound as formerly. O many Have broke their backs with laying manors on them For this great journey.  Shakespeare's Rich. II.

Manumission
Manumíssion. n.s. [manumission, Fr. manumissio, Lat.] The act of giving liberty to slaves.
Slaves wore iron rings until their manumission or preferment. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. iv.
 The pileus was somewhat like a night-cap, as the symbol of liberty, and therefore given to slaves at their manumission. Arbuthnot on Coins.

Mass (noun)
Mass. n.s. [masse, Fr. massa, Latin.]

 A body; a lump; a continuous quantity.
If it were not for these principles the bodies, of the earth, planets, comets, sun, and all things in them, would grow cold and freeze, and become inactive masses. Newton's Opt.
Some passing into their pores, others adhering in lumps or masses to their outsides, so as wholly to cover and involve it in the mass they together constituted. Woodward's Nat. Hist.
 A large quantity.
Thy sumptuous buildings, and thy wife's attire,Have cost a mass of publick treasury. Shakesp. Henry VI.
He had spent a huge mass of treasure in transporting his army. Davies on Ireland.
 Bulk; vast body.
The Creator of the world would not have framed so huge a mass of earth but for some reasonable creatures to have their habitation. Abbot's Description of the World.
This army of such mass and charge,Led by a delicate and tender prince. Shakesp. Hamlet.
He discovered to me the richest mines which the Spaniards have, and from whence all the mass of gold that comes into Spain is drawn. Raleigh's Essays.
 Congeries; assemblage indistinct.
The whole knowledge of groupes, of the lights and shadows, and of those masses which Titian calls a bunch of grapes, is, in the prints of Rubens, exposed clearly to the sight. Dryden.
At distance, through an artful glass,To the mind's eye things well appear;They lose their forms, and make a massConfus'd and black, if brought too near. Prior.
Where flowers grow, the ground at a distance seems covered with them, and we must walk into it before we can distinguish the several weeds that spring up in such a beautiful mass of colours. Addison's Freeholder.
 Gross body; the general.
Comets have the power over the gross and mass of things; but they are rather gazed upon than wisely observed in their effects. Bacon's Essays.
Where'er thou art, he is; th' eternal mindActs through all places; is to none confin'd:Fills ocean, earth, and air, and all above,And through the universal mass does move. Dryden.
The mass of the people have opened their eyes, and will not be governed by Clodius and Curio at the head of their myrmidons. Swift.
If there is not a sufficient quantity of blood and strength of circulation, it may infect the whole mass of the fluids. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 [Missa, Latin.] The service of the Romish church.
Burnished gold is that manner of gilding which we see in old parchment and mass books, done by monks and priests, who were very expert herein. Peacham on Drawing.
He infers, that then Luther must have been unpardonably wicked in using masses for fifteen years. Atterbury.

Mate (noun)
Mate n.s. [maca, Saxon; maet, Dutch.]

 A husband or wife.
I that am frail flesh and earthly wight,Unworthy match for such immortal mate,Myself well wote, and mine unequal fate. Fairy Queen.
 A companion, male or female.
Go, base intruder! over-weening slave!Bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates. Shakespeare.
                    My competitorIn top of all design, my mate in empire,Friend and companion in the front of war. Shakespeare.
            You knew me once no mateFor you; there sitting where you durst not soar. Milton.
Damon, behold yon breaking purple cloud;Hear'st thou not hymns and songs divinely loud:There mounts Amyntas, the young cherubs playAbout their godlike mate, and sing him on his way. Dryd.
            Leave thy bride alone:Go, leave her with her maiden mates to playAt sports more harmless, till the break of day. Dryden.
 The male or female of animals.
            Part single, or with mate;Graze the sea-weed their pasture, and through grovesOf coral stray. Milton's Par. Lost, b. vii.
Pliny tells us, that elephants know no copulation with any other than their own proper mate. Ayliffe's Parergon.
 One that sails in the same ship.
What vengeance on the passing fleet she pour'd,The master frighted, and the mates devour'd. Roscommon.
 One that eats at the same table.

 The second in subordination; as, the master's mate; the chirurgeon's mate.

Mathematicks
Mathemáticks. n.s. [μαθηματικὴ.] That science which contemplates whatever is capable of being numbered or measured; and it is either pure or mixt: pure considers abstracted quantity, without any relation to matter; mixt is interwoven with physical considerations. Harris.
 The mathematicks and the metaphysicks Fall to them, as you find your stomach serves you. Shak.
 See mystery to mathematicks fly. Pope.

Melliferous
Mellíferous. adj. Productive of honey. Dict.

Memento
Meménto. n.s. [Latin.] A memorial notice; a hint to awaken the memory.
 Our gracious master, for his learning and piety, is not only a precedent to his own subjects, but to foreign princes; yet he is still but a man, and seasonable memento's may be useful. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
 Is not the frequent spectacle of other peoples deaths a memento sufficient to make you think of your own? L'Estrange.

Memorandum
Memorándum. n.s. [Latin.] A note to help the memory.
 I resolved to new pave every street within the liberties, and entered a memorandum in my pocket-book accordingly. Guardian, № 166.
 Nature's fair table-book, our tender souls, We scrawl all o'er with old and empty rules, Stale memorandums of the schools. Swift's Miscel.

Mercurial
Mércurial. adj. [mercurialis, Lat.]

 Formed under the influence of mercury; active; sprightly.
 I know the shape of 's leg: This is his hand, His foot mercurial, his martial thigh, The brawns of Hercules. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
 This youth was such a mercurial, as could make his own part, if at any time he chanced to be out. Bacon's Hen. VII.
 Tully considered the dispositions of a sincere, more ignorant, and less mercurial nation, by dwelling on the pathetick part. Swift's Miscel.
 Consisting of quicksilver.

Meretricious
Meretri'cious. adj. [meretricius, meretrix, Latin.] Whorish; such as is practised by prostitutes; alluring by false show.
 Our degenerate understandings having suffered a sad divorce from their dearest object, defile themselves with every meretricious semblance, that the variety of opinion presents them with. Glanville's Scep.
 Not by affected, meretricious arts, But strict harmonious symmetry of parts. Roscommon.

Meretriciously
Meretríciously. adv. [from meretricious.] Whorishly; after the manner of whores.

Meretriciousness
Meretríciousness. n.s. [from meretricious.] False allurement like those of strumpets.

Metempsychosis
Metempsychósis. n.s. [μετεμψύχωσις. The transmigration of souls from body to body.
 From the opinion of metempsychosis, or transmigration of the souls of men into the bodies of beasts, most suitable unto their human condition, after his death Orpheus the musician became a swan. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. iii.

Meteor
Méteor. n.s. [meteore, Fr. μετέωρα.] Any bodies in the air or sky that are of a flux and transitory nature.
 Look'd he or red, or pale, or sad, or merrily? What observation mad'st thou in this case, Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face? Shakespeare.
 She began to cast with herself from what coast this blazing star must rise upon the horizon of Ireland; for there had the like meteor strong influence before. Bacon's Henry VII.
 These burning fits but meteors be, Whose matter in thee soon is spent: Thy beauty, and all parts which are in thee, Are an unchangeable firmament. Donne.
 Then flaming meteors, hung in air, were seen, And thunders rattled through a sky serene. Dryden's Æn.
 Why was I rais'd the meteor of the world, Hung in the skies, and blazing as I travell'd, Till all my fires were spent; and then cast downward To be trod out by Cæsar? Dryden's All for Love.
 O poet, thou hadst been discreteer, Hanging the monarch's hat so high, If thou hadst dubb'd thy star a meteor, Which did but blaze, and rove, and die. Prior.

Militia
Milítia. n.s. [Latin.] The trainbands; the standing force of a nation.
 Let any prince think soberly of his forces, except his militia be good and valiant soldiers. Bacon's Essays, № 30.
 The militia was so settled by law, that a sudden army could be drawn together. Clarendon.
 Unnumbered spirits round thee fly, The light militia of the lower sky. Pope's Rape of the Lock.

Milk (noun)
Milk. n.s. [meelc, Saxon; melck, Dutch.]

 The liquor with which animals feed their young from the breast.
               Come to my woman's breasts, And take my milk for gall, you murthering ministers! Where-ever in your sightless substances You wait on nature's substances You wait on nature's mischief. Shakesp. Macbeth.
                     I fear thy nature, It is too full o' th' milk of human kindness To catch the nearest way. Shakesp. King Lear.
 Milk is the occasion of many tumours of divers kinds. Wiseman's Surgery.
                 When milk is dry'd with heat, In vain the milkmaid tugs an empty teat. Dryden.
 I concluded, if the gout continued, to confine myself wholly to the milk diet. Temple's Miscel.
 Broths and milk-meats are windy to stomachs troubled with acid ferments. Floyer on the Humours.
 Emulsion made by contusion of seeds.
 Pistachoes, so they be good and not musty, joined with almonds in almond milk, or made into a milk of themselves, like unto almond milk, are an excellent nourisher. Bacon.

Milky
Mílky. adj. [from milk.]

 Made of milk.

 Resembling milk.
 Not tasteful herbs that in these gardens rise, Which the kind soil with milky sap supplies, Can move the god. Pope.
 Some plants upon breaking their vessels yield a milky juice. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 Yielding milk.
 Perhaps my passion he disdains, And courts the milky mothers of the plains. Roscommon.
 Soft; gentle; tender; timorous.
 Has friendship such a faint and milky heart, It turns in less than two nights. Shakespeare.
 This milky gentleness and course of years, You are much more at task for want of wisdom, Than prais'd for harmful mildness. Shakesp. King Lear.

Milky-way
Milky-way. n.s. [milky and way.] The galaxy.
The milky-way, or via lactea, is a broad white path or track, encompassing the whole heavens, and extending itself in some places with a double path, but for the most part with a single one. Some of the ancients, as Aristotle, imagined that this path consisted only of a certain exhalation hanging in the air; but, by the telescopical observations of this age, it hath been discovered to consist of an innumerable quantity of fixed stars, different in situation and magnitude, from the confused mixture of whose light its whole colour is supposed to be occasioned. It passes through the constellations of Cassiopeia, Cygnus, Aquila, Perseus, Andromeda, part of Ophiucus and Gemini, in the northern hemisphere; and in the southern it takes in part of Scorpio, Sagittarius, Centaurus, the Argo Navis and the Ara. The galaxy hath usually been the region in which new stars have appeared; as that in Cassiopeia, which was seen in A. D. 1572; that in the breast of the Swan, and another in the knee of Serpentarius; which have appeared for a while, and then become invisible again. Harris
 Nor need we with a prying eye survey The distant skies to find the milky-way: It forcibly intrudes upon our sight. Creech's Manilius.
 How many stars there must be, a naked eye may give us some faint glimpse, but much more a good telescope, directed towards that region of the sky called the milky-way. Cheyne.

Millenarian
Millenárian. n.s. [from millenarius, Lat. millenaire, Fr.] One who expects the millennium.

Millennium
Millénnium. n.s. [Latin.] A thousand years; generally taken for the thousand years, during which, according to an ancient tradition in the church, grounded on a doubtful text in the Apocalypse, our blessed Saviour shall reign with the faithful upon earth after the resurrection, before the final completion of beatitude.
We must give a full account of that state called the millennium. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.

Mime (noun)
Mime. n.s. [mime, Fr. μῖμος; mimus, Latin.] A buffoon who practises gesticulations, either representative of some action, or merely contrived to raise mirth.
Think'st thou, mime, this is great? Benj. Johnson.

Mime (verb)
To Mime. v.n. To play the mime.
Think'st thou, mime, this is great? or that they striveWhose noise shall keep thy miming most alive,Whilst thou dost raise some player from the grave,Out-dance the babion, or out-boast the brave. B. Johnson.

Mimer
Mímer. n.s. [from mime.] A mimick; a buffoon.
Jugglers and dancers, anticks, mummers, mimers. Milton's Samson Agonistes.

Mimical
Mímical. adj. [mimicus, Latin.] Imitative; befitting a mimick; acting the mimick.
Man is of all creatures the most mimical in gestures, styles, speech, fashion, or accents. Wotton on Education.
A mimical daw would needs try the same experiment; but his claws were shackled. L'Estrange's Fables.
Singers and dancers entertained the people with light songs and mimical gestures, that they might not go away melancholy from serious pieces of the theatre. Dryden's Juvenal.

Mimically
Mímically. adv. [from mimical.] In imitation; in a mimical manner.

Mimick (adjective)
Mímick. adj. [mimicus, Latin.] Imitative.
The busy head with mimick art runs o'erThe scenes and actions of the day before. Swift's Miscel.

Mimick (noun)
Mímick. n.s. [mimicus, Latin.]

 A ludicrous imitator; a buffoon who copies another's act or manner so as to excite laughter.
Like poor Andrew I advance,False mimick of my master's dance:Around the cord a while I sprawl,And thence, though slow, in earnest fall. Prior.
 A mean or servile imitator.
Of France the mimick, and of Spain the prey. Anon.

Mimick (verb)
To Mímick. v.a. [from the noun.] To imitate as a buffoon; to ridicule by a burlesque imitation.
                      Morpheus express'dThe shape of man, and imitated best;The walk, the words, the gesture, could supply,The habit mimick, and the mien belye. Dryden.
Who wou'd with care some happy fiction frame;So mimicks truth, it looks the very same. Granville.

Mimickry
Mímickry. n.s. [from mimick.] Burlesque imitation.
By an excellent faculty in mimickry, my correspondent tells me he can assume my air, and give my taciturnity a slyness which diverts more than any thing I could say. Spectator.

Mimographer
Mimógrapher. n.s. [mimus and γράφω.] A writer of farces. Dict.

Minacious
Minácious. adj. [minax, Lat.] Full of threats.

Minacity
Minácity. n.s. [from minax, Latin.] Disposition to use threats.

Minatory
Mínatory. adj. [minor, Latin.] Threatening.
The king made a statute monitory and minatory, towards justices of peace, that they should duly execute their office, inviting complaints against them. Bacon's Henry VII.

Miscreant
Míscreant. n.s. [mescreant, French.]

 One that holds a false faith; one who believes in false gods.
 Their prophets justly condemned them as an adulterous seed, and a wicked generation of miscreants, which had forsaken the living God. Hooker, b. v.
 A vile wretch.
                 Now by Apollo, king,Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.— O vassal! miscreant! Shakespeare's King Lear.
 If extraordinary lenity proves ineffectual, those miscreants ought to be made sensible that our constitution is armed with force. Addison's Freeholder, №. 50.

Mome
Mome. n.s. A dull, stupid blockhead, a stock, a post: this owes its original to the French word momon, which signifies the gaming at dice in masquerade, the custom and rule of which is, that a strict silence is to be observed; whatsoever sum one stakes another covers, but not a word is to be spoken; from hence also comes our word mum for silence. Hanmer.
Mome, malthorse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch! Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch. Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors.

Monkey
Mónkey. n.s. [monikin, a little man.]

 An ape; a baboon; a jackanapes. An animal bearing some resemblance of man.
 One of them shewed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey: Tubal, it was my turquoise; I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys. Shakespeare.
More new-fangled than an ape; more giddy in my desires than a monkey. Shakesp. As you like it.
 Other creatures, as well as monkeys, destroy their young ones by senseless fondness. Locke on Education.
 With glittering gold and sparkling gems they shine,But apes and monkeys are the gods within. Granville.
 A word of contempt, or slight kindness.
This is the monkey's own giving out; she is persuaded I will marry her. Shakespeare's Othello.
 Poor monkey! how wilt thou do for a father? Shakesp.

Monody
Mónody. n.s. [μονωδία; monodie, Fr.] A poem sung by one  person not in dialogue.

Monogamist
Monógamist. n.s. [μόνος and γαμος; monogame, Fr.] One who disallows second marriages.

Monogamy
Monógamy. n.s. [monogamie, Fr. μόνος and γαμἐω.] Marriage of one wife.

Monogram
Mónogram. n.s. μόνος and γράμμα; monogramme, Fr.] A cypher; a character compounded of several letters.

Monologue
Mónologue. n.s. [μονος and λόγος; monologue, Fr.] A scene in which a person of the drama speaks by himself; a soliloquy.
 He gives you an account of himself, and of his returning from the country, in monologue; to which unnatural way of narration Terence is subject in all his plays. Dryden.

Monomachy
Mónomachy. n.s. [μονομαχία; μóνος and μάχη.] A duel; a single combat.

Monome
Mónome. n.s. [monome, Fr.] In algebra, a quantity that has but one denomination or name; as, ab, aab, aaab. Harris.

Monotony
Mono'tony. n.s. [μονοτονία; μόνος and τόνος; monotonie, Fr.] Uniformity of sound; want of variety in cadence.
 I could object to the repetition of the same rhimes within four lines of each other as tiresome to the ear through their monotony. Pope's Letters.

Monsieur
Mo'nsieur. n.s. [French.] A term of reproach for a Frenchman.
                 A Frenchman his companion;An eminent monsieur, that, it seems, much lovesA Gallian girl. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.

Monsoon
Monso'on. n.s. [monson, monçon, Fr.]
Monsoons are shifting trade winds in the East Indian ocean, which blow periodically; some for half a year one way, others but for three months, and then shift and blow for six or three months directly contrary. Harris.
The monsoons and trade winds are constant and periodical even to the thirtieth degree of latitude all around the globe, and seldom transgress or fall short of those bounds. Ray.

Monster (noun)
Mo'nster. n. s. [monstre, Fr. monstrum, Latin.]

 Something out of the common order of nature.
 It ought to be determined whether monsters be really a distinct species; we find, that some of these monstrous productions have none of those qualities that accompany the essence of that species from whence they derive. Locke.
 Something horrible for deformity, wickedness, or mischief.
                          If she live long, And, in the end, meet the old course of death, Women will all turn monsters. Shakesp. King Lear.
                  All human virtue Finds envy never conquer'd but by death: The great Alcides ev'ry labour past, Had still this monster to subdue at last. Pope.

Monster (verb)


Montant
Mo'ntant. n.s. [French.] A term in fencing.
Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for?— To see thee fight, to see thee pass thy puncto, thy stock, thy traverse, thy distance, thy montant.  Shakesp.

Montero
Monte'ro. n.s. [Spanish.] A horseman's cap.
His hat was like a helmet, or Spanish montero. Bacon.

Monteth
Monte'th. n.s. [from the name of the inventor.] A vessel in which glasses are washed.
New things produce new words, and thus Monteth Has by one vessel sav'd his name from death. King.

Month
Month. n. s. [monað, Saxon.] A space of time either measured by the sun or moon: the lunar month is the time between the change and change, or the time in which the moon comes to the same point: the solar month is the time in which the sun passes through a sign of the zodiack: the calendar months, by which we reckon time, are unequally of thirty or one-and-thirty days, except February, which is of twenty-eight; and in leap year of twenty-nine.
 Till the expiration of your month, Sojourn with my sister. Shakesp. King Lear.
 From a month old even unto five years old. Lev. xxvii. 6.
 Months are not only lunary, and measured by the moon, but also solary, and determined by the motion of the sun, in thirty degrees of the ecliptick. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. iv.
 As many months as I sustain'd her hate, So many years is she condemn'd by fate To daily death. Dryden's Theo. and Honoria.

Month's Mind


Monthly (adjective)


Monthly (adverb)
Mo'nthly. adv. Once in a month.
If the one may very well monthly, the other may as well even daily, be iterated. Hooker, b. v.
O swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon, That changes monthly in her circled orb; Lest that thy love prove likewise variable. Shakespeare.

Montoir
Monto'ir. n.s. [French.] In horsemanship, a stone as high as the stirrups, which Italian riding-masters mount their horses from, without putting their foot in the stirrup. Dict.

Montross


Mood


Moon
Moon. n.s. [μηνὴ; mena, Gothick; mena, Saxon; mona, Islandick; maane, Danish; mane, German; maen, Dutch.]

 The changing luminary of the night, called by poets Cynthia or Phœbe.
The moon shines bright: 'twas such a night as this,When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees,And they did make no noise. Shakespeare.
O swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon,That monthly changes in her circled orb,Lest that thy love prove likewise variable. Shakespeare.
Diana hath her name from moisten, which is the property of the moon, being by nature cold and moist, and is feigned to be a goddess huntress. Peacham.
Ye moon and stars bear witness to the truth! Dryden.
 A month. Ains.

 [In fortification.] It is used in composition to denote a figure resembling a crescent: as, a half moon.

Moon-calf
Moon-calf. n.s. [moon and calf.]

 A monster; a false conception: supposed perhaps anciently to be produced by the influence of the moon.
How cam'st thou to be the siege of this moon-calf. Shak.
 A dolt; a stupid fellow.
The potion works not on the part design'd,But turns his brain, and stupifies his mind;The sotted moon-calf gapes. Dryden's Juvenal.

Moor (noun)


Moor (verb active)


Moor (verb neuter)


Mortiferous
Mortíferous. adj. [mortifer, Latin.] Fatal; deadly; destructive.
 What is it but a continued perpetuated voice from heaven, to give men no rest in their sins, no quiet from Christ's importunity, till they awake from the lethargick sleep, and arise from so dead, so mortiferous a state, and permit him to give them life. Hammond's Fundamentals.
 These murmurings, like a mortiferous herb, are poisonous even in their first spring. Government of the Tongue, s. 10.

Mortress
Mórtress. n.s. [from mortier de sagesse. Skinner.] A dish of meat of various kinds beaten together.
 A mortress made with the brawn of capons, stamped, strained, and mingled with like quantity of almond butter, is excellent to nourish the weak. Bacon's Nat. Hist.

Mortuary
Mórtuary. n.s. [mortuaire, Fr. mortuarium, Latin.] A gift left by a man at his death to his parish church, for the recompence of his personal tythes and offerings not duly paid in his life-time. Harris.

Mosaick
Mosáick. adj. [mosaique, French, supposed corrupted from musæus, Latin.]
Mosaick is a kind of painting in small pebbles, cockles, and shells of sundry colours; and of late days likewise with pieces of glass figured at pleasure; an ornament in truth, of much beauty, and long life, but of most use in pavements and floorings.  Wotton's Architecture.
                     Each beauteous flow'r, Iris all hues, roses, and jessamin, Rear'd high their flourish'd heads between, and wrought Mosaick. Milton's Par. Lost, b. iv.
 The most remarkable remnant of it is a very beautiful mosaick pavement, the finest I have ever seen in marble; the parts are so well joined together, that the whole piece looks like a continued picture. Addison on Italy.

Mosque
Mosque. n.s. [mosquée, French; moschit, Turkish.] A Mahometan temple.

Moth
Moth. n.s. [moð, Saxon.] A small winged insect that eats cloths and hangings.
All the yarn Penelope spun in Ulysses's absence, did but fill Ithaca full of moths. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
Every soldier in the wars should do as every sick man in his bed, wash every moth out of his conscience. Shakesp.
He as a rotten thing consumeth, as a garment that is moth eaten. Job xiii. 28.
Let moths through pages eat their way,Your wars, your loves, your praises be forgot,And make of all an universal blot. Dryden's Juv.

Mother (noun)
Móther. n.s. [moðor, Saxon; moder, Danish; moeder, Dutch.]

 A woman that has born a child; correlative to son or daughter.
Let thy mother rather feel thy pride, than fearThy dangerous stoutness. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
Come sit down every mother's son,And rehearse your parts. Shakespeare.
I had not so much of man in me,But all my mother came into mine eyes,And gave me up to tears. Shakesp. Henry V.
 That which has produced any thing.
        Alas, poor country! It cannotBe call'd our mother, but our grave. Shakespeare.
The resemblance of the constitution and diet of the inhabitants to those of their mother country, occasion a great affinity in the popular diseases. Arbuthnot on Air.
The strongest branch leave for a standard, cutting off the rest close to the body of the mother plant. Mortimer's Husb.
 That which has preceded in time: as, a mother church to chapels.

 That which requires reverence and obedience.
The good of mother church, as well as that of civil society, renders a judicial practice necessary. Ayliffe's Parergon.
 Hysterical passion; so called, as being imagined peculiar to women.
This stopping of the stomach might be the mother; forasmuch as many were troubled with mother fits, although few returned to have died of them. Graunt's Bills.
 A familiar term of address to an old woman; or to a woman dedicated to religious austerities.

 Mother in law. A husband's or wife's mother. Ains.
I am come to set at variance the daughter in law against the mother in law. Matth. x. 35.
 [Moeder, Dutch, from modder, mud.] A thick substance concentrating in liquors; the lees or scum concreted.
If the body be liquid, and not apt to putrefy totally, it will cast up a mother, as the mothers of distilled waters. Bacon.
Potted fowl, and fish come in so fast,That ere the first is out the second stinks,And mouldy mother gathers on the brinks. Dryden.
 [More properly modder; modde, Dutch.] A young girl.  Now totally obsolete.
A sling for a mother, a bow for a boy,A whip for a carter. Tusser's Husbandry.

Mouse (noun)
Mouse. plural mice. n. s. [mus, Saxon; mus, Latin.] The smallest of all beasts; a little animal haunting houses and corn fields, destroyed by cats.
 The eagle England being in prey, To her unguarded nest the weazel Scot Comes sneaking, and so sucks her princely eggs; Playing the mouse in absence of the cat. Shakespeare.
 These shall be unclean; the weasle, the mouse, and the tortoise. Lev. xi. 29.
 Where mice and rats devour'd poetick bread, And with heroick verse luxuriously were fed. Dryden.
 This structure of hair I have observed in the hair of cats, rats, and mice. Derham's Physico-Theol.

Mouse (verb)
To Mouse. v.n. [from the noun.]

 To catch mice.
 An eagle tow'ring, in his pride of place Was by a mousing owl hawk'd and kill'd. Shakespeare.
 I suppose it means, in the following passage, sly; insidious; or predatory, rapacious; interested.
 A whole assembly of mousing saints, under the mask of zeal and good nature, lay many kingdoms in blood. L'Estrange.

Mum (interjection)
Mum. interject. [Of this word I know not the original; it may be observed, that when it is pronounced it leaves the lips closed.] A word denoting prohibition to speak, or resolution not to speak; silence; hush.
Mum then, and no more proceed. Shakesp. Tempest.
Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill. Shakesp.
The citizens are mum, say not a word. Shak. Rich. III.
Intrust it under solemn vows Of mum, and silence, and the rose. Hudibras, p. iii.

Mummy
Múmmy. n.s. [mumie, Fr. mumia, Lat. derived by Salmasius from amomum, by Bochart from the Arabick.]

 A dead body preserved by the Egyptian art of embalming.
 We have two different substances preserved for medicinal use under the name of mummy: one is the dried flesh of human bodies embalmed with myrrh and spice; the other is the liquor running from such mummies when newly prepared, or when affected by great heat, or by damps: this is sometimes of a liquid, sometimes of a solid form, as it is preserved in vials well stopped, or suffered to dry and harden in the air: the first kind is brought to us in large pieces, of a lax and friable texture, light and spungy, of a blackish brown colour, and often black and clammy on the surface; it is of a strong but not agreeable smell: the second sort, in its liquid state, is a thick, opake, and viscous fluid, of a blackish and a strong, but not disagreeable smell: in its indurated slate it is a dry, solid substance, of a fine shining black colour and close texture, easily broken, and of a good smell: this sort is extremely dear, and the first sort so cheap, that as all kinds of mummy are brought from Egypt we are not to imagine it to be the ancient Egyptian mummy. What our druggists are supplied with is the flesh of executed criminals, or of any other bodies the Jews can get, who fill them with the common bitumen so plentiful in that part of the world. and adding aloes, and some other cheap ingredients, send them to be baked in an oven till the juices are exhaled, and the embalming matter has penetrated so thoroughly that the flesh will keep. Mummy has been esteemed resolvent and balsamick; and besides it, the skull, and even the moss growing on the skulls of human skeletons, have been celebrated for antiepileptick virtues; the fat also of the human body has been recommended in rheumatisms, and every other part or humour have been in repute for the cure of some disease: at present we are wise enough to know, that the virtues ascribed to the parts of the human body are all either imaginary, or such as may be found in other animal substances: the mummy and the skull alone of all these horrid medicines retain their places in the shops. Hill's Mat. Med.
  The silk Was dy'd in mummy, which the skilful Conserv'd of maidens hearts. Shakesp. Othello.
 It is strange how long carcases have continued uncorrupt, as appeareth in the mummies of Egypt, having lasted some of them three thousand years. Bacon's Nat. Hist. № 771.
 Sav'd by spice, like mummies, many a year, Old bodies of philosophy appear. Dunciad, b. i.
 Mummy is used among gardeners for a sort of wax used in the planting and grafting of trees. Chambers.

 To beat to a Mummy. To beat soundly. Ains.

Muse (noun)


Muttonfist
Muttonfi'st. n.s. [mutton and fist.] A hand large and red.
Will he who saw the soldiers muttonfist, And saw thee maul'd appear within the list To witness truth. Dryden's Juvenal, sat. 16.

Mutual
Mu'tual. adj. [mutuel, French; mutuus, Lat.] Reciprocal; each acting in return or correspondence to the other.
             Note a wild and wanton herd, Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud, If they perchance but hear a trumpet sound, You shall perceive them make a mutual stand, By the sweet power of musick. Shakesp. Merch. of Venice.
What should most excite a mutual flame, Your rural cares and pleasures are the same. Pope.

Mutuality
Mutua'lity. n.s. [from mutual.] Reciprocation.
Villanous thoughts, Roderigo! when these mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand comes the incorporate conclusion. Shakespeare's Othello.

Mutually
Mu'tually. adv. [from mutual.] Reciprocally; in return.
                         He never bore Like labour with the rest; where th' other instruments Did see, and hear, devise, instruct, walk, feel And mutually participate. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
Dear love I bear to fair Anne Page, Who mutually hath answer'd my affection. Shakespeare.
The tongue and pen mutually assist one another, writing what we speak, and speaking what we write. Holder.
Pellucid substances act upon the rays of light at a distance, in refracting, reflecting and inflecting them, and the rays mutually agitate the parts of those substances at a distance for heating them. Newton's Opticks.
They mutually teach, and are taught, that lesson of vain confidence and security. Atterbury's Sermons.
May I the sacred pleasures know Of strictest amity, nor ever want A friend with whom I mutually may share Gladness and anguish. Philips.

Muzzle (noun)
Mu'zzle. n.s. [museau, French.]

 The mouth of any thing; the mouth of a man in contempt.
 But ever and anon turning her muzzle toward me, she threw such a prospect upon me, as might well have given a surfeit to any weak lover's stomach. Sidney, b. ii.
 Huygens has proved, that a bullet continuing in the velocity with which it leaves the muzzle of the cannon, would require twenty-five years to pass from us to the sun. Cheyne.
 If the poker be out of the way, or broken, stir the fire with the tongs; if the tongs be not at hand; use the muzzle of the bellows. Swift's Rules to Servants.
 A fastening for the mouth, which hinders to bite.
 The fifth Harry from curbed licence plucks The muzzle of restraint; and the wild dog Shall flesh his tooth on ev'ry innocent. Shakesp. Henry IV.
                  Greyhounds, snowy fair, And tall as stags, ran loose, and cours'd around his chair; With golden muzzles all their mouths were bound. Dryden.

Muzzle (verb active)
To Mu'zzle. v.a.

 To bind the mouth.
 This butcher's cur is venom mouth'd, and I Have not the pow'r to muzzle him; therefore best Not wake him in his slumber. Shakesp. Henry VIII.
                              My dagger muzzled, Lest it should bite its master, and so prove, As ornaments oft do, too dangerous. Shak. Winter's Tale.
 The bear, the boar, and every savage name, Wild in effect, though in appearance tame, Lay waste thy woods, destroy thy blissful bow'r, And muzzled though they seem, the mutes devour. Dryden.
 Led by the nostril, walks the muzzledbear. Gay's Past.
 To fondle with the mouth close. A low word.
The nurse was then muzzling and coaxing of the child. L'Estrange's Fables.

Muzzle (verb neuter)
To Mu'zzle. v.n. To bring the mouth near.
The bear muzzles, and smells to him, puts his nose to his mouth and to his ears, and at last leaves him. L'Estrange.

My
My. pronoun possessive. [See Mine.] Belonging to me. My is used before a substantive, and mine anciently and properly before a vowel. My is now commonly used indifferently before both. My is used when the substantive follows, and mine when it goes before: as, this is my book; this book is mine.
Her feet she in my neck doth place. Spenser.
I conclude my reply with the words of a Christian poet. Bramhall.
If my soul had free election To dispose of her affection. Waller.
I shall present my reader with a journal. Addison.

Mynchen


Myography


Myology
My'ology. n.s. [myologie, French.] The description and doctrine of the muscles.
To instance in all the particulars, were to write a whole system of myology. Cheyne's Phil. Principles.

Myopy
My'opy. n.s. Shortness of sight.

Myriad
My'riad. n.s. [μύριας.]

 The number of ten thousand.

 Proverbially any great number.
                                 Assemble thou, Of all those myriads, which we lead, the chief. Milton.
 Are there legions of devils who are continually designing and working our ruin? there are also myriads of good angels who are more cheerful and officious to do us good. Tillotson.
 Safe fits the goddess in her dark retreat; Around her, myriads of ideas wait, And endless shapes. Prior.

Myrmidon
My'rmidon. n.s. [μυρμηδὼν.] Any rude ruffian; so named from the soldiers of Achilles.
The mass of the people will not endure to be governed by Clodius and Curio, at the head of their myrmidons, though these be ever so numerous, and composed of their own representatives. Swift.

Myrobalan
Myro'balan. n.s. [myrobalanus, Latin.] A fruit.
The myrobalans are a dried fruit, of which we have five kinds: they are fleshy, generally with a stone and kernel, having the pulpy part more or less of an austere acrid taste: they are the production of five different trees growing in the East Indies, where they are eaten preserved: they serve also for making and for dressing leather: they have been long in great esteem for their quality of opening the bowels in a gentle manner, and afterwards strengthening them by their astringency; but the present practice rejects them all. Hill.
The myrobalan hath parts of contrary natures; for it is sweet, and yet astringent. Bacon's Nat. Hist. №. 644.

Myropolist
Myro'polist. n.s. [μῦρον and πωλέω.] One who sells unguents.

Myrrh
Myrrh. n.s. [myrrha, Latin; myrrhe, Fr.] A gum.
Myrrh is a vegetable product of the gum resin kind, sent to us in loose granules from the size of a pepper corn to that of a walnut, of a reddish brown colour, with more or less of an admixture of yellow: its taste is bitter and acrid, with a peculiar aromatick flavour, but very nauseous: its smell is strong, but not disagreeable: it is brought from Ethiopia, but the tree which produces it is wholly unknown. Our myrrh is the very drug known by the ancients under the same name: internally applied it is a powerful resolvent, and externally applied it is discutient and vulnerary. Hill's M. Med.
The myrrhe sweet bleeding in the bitter wound. Spenser.
I dropt in a little honey of roses, with a few drops of tincture of myrrh. Wiseman's Surgery.

Myrrhine
My'rrhine. adj. [myrrhynus, Latin.] Made of the myrrhine stone.
             How they quaff in gold, Crystal and myrrhine cups imboss'd with gems And studs of pearl. Milton's Par. Reg. b. iv.

Myrtiform


Myrtle


Myself


Mystagogue
Mystago'gue. n.s. [μυσταγωγὸς; mystagogus, Latin.] One who interprets divine mysteries; also one who keeps church relicks, and shews them to strangers.   Bailey.

Mysteriarch


Mysterious


Mysteriously


Mysteriousness


Mysterize


Mystery


Mystical
My'stical.My'stick.

adj. [mysticus, Latin.]



 Sacredly obscure.
 Let God himself that made me, let not man that knows not himself, be my instructor concerning the mystical way to heaven. Hooker, b. i.
 From salvation all flesh being excluded in this way, God hath revealed a way mystical and supernatural. Hooker, b. i.
 Involving some secret meaning, emblematical.
 Ye five other wandr'ing fires! that move In mystick dance not without song, resound His praise, who out of darkness call'd up light. Milton.
 It is Christ's body in the sacrament and out of it; but in the sacrament not the natural truth, but the spiritual and mystical. Taylor's Worthy Communicant.
 It is plain from the Apocalypse, that mystical Babylon is to be consumed by fire. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
 Obscure; secret.
 Lest new fears disturb the happy state, Know, I have search'd the mystick rolls of fate. Dryden.

Mystically


Mysticalness


Mystick
My'stical.My'stick.

adj. [mysticus, Latin.]



 Sacredly obscure.
 Let God himself that made me, let not man that knows not himself, be my instructor concerning the mystical way to heaven. Hooker, b. i.
 From salvation all flesh being excluded in this way, God hath revealed a way mystical and supernatural. Hooker, b. i.
 Involving some secret meaning, emblematical.
 Ye five other wandr'ing fires! that move In mystick dance not without song, resound His praise, who out of darkness call'd up light. Milton.
 It is Christ's body in the sacrament and out of it; but in the sacrament not the natural truth, but the spiritual and mystical. Taylor's Worthy Communicant.
 It is plain from the Apocalypse, that mystical Babylon is to be consumed by fire. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
 Obscure; secret.
 Lest new fears disturb the happy state, Know, I have search'd the mystick rolls of fate. Dryden.

Mythological


Mythologically


Mythologist


Mythologize


Mythology
