Nab
To Nab. v.a. [nappa, Swedish.] To catch unexpectedly; to seize without warning. A word seldom used but in low language.

Nadir
Nadir. n.s. [Arabick.] The point under foot directly opposite to the zenith.
As far as four bright signs comprize,The distant zenith from the nadir lies. Creech.

Naff
Naff. n.s. A kind of tufted sea-bird.

Nag
Nag. n.s. [nagge, Dutch.]

 A small horse. A horse in familiar language.
A hungry lion would fain have been dealing with good horse-flesh; but the nag would be too fleet. L'Estrange.
Thy nags, the leanest things alive,So very hard thou lov'st to drive. Prior.
 A paramour; in contempt.
Your ribauld nag of EgyptHoists sails, and flies. Shakespeare's Ant. and Cleopatra.

Nail (noun)
Nail. n.s. [nœᵹl, Saxon; nagel, German.]

 The hard crust or horny substance at the ends of the fingers and toes.
My nails can reach unto thine eyes. Shakespeare.
The meanest sculptor in th' Æmilian square,Can imitate in brass, the nails and hair;Expert in trifles. Dryden.
The nails of our fingers give strength to those parts in the various functions they are put to; and defend the numerous nerves and tendons that are under them. Ray.
 The talons of birds and beasts.

 A spike of metal by which things are fastened together.
As one nail by strength drives out another;So the remembrance of my former loveIs by a newer object soon forgotten. Shakespeare.
For the body of the ships, no nation doth equal England, nor for the oaken timber to build them; and we need not borrow iron for spikes or nails, to fasten them together. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
The load-stone mines in the shore of India, are so placed in abundance and vigor, that it proves an adventure of hazard to pass those coasts in a ship with iron nails. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. ii. c. 3.
                    A beechen pailHung by the handle, on a driven nail. Dryden.
An equivocal word used for the nail of the hand or foot, and for an iron nail to fasten any thing. Watts.
 A stud; a boss.

 A kind of measure; two inches and a quarter.

 On the nail. Readily; immediately; without delay. I suppose from a counter studded with nails.
We want our money on the nail,The banker's ruin'd if he pays. Swift's Poems.

Nail (verb)
To Nail. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To fasten with nails.
To the cross he nails thy enemies,The law that is against thee, and the sinsOf all mankind, with him are crucify'd. Milton's P. Lost.
He clasp'd his hand upon the wounded part.The second shaft came swift and unespy'd,And pierc'd his hand, and nail'd it to his side. Dryden.
 To stud with nails.
In golden armour glorious to behold,The rivets of your arms were nail'd with gold. Dryden.

Nailer
Nailer. n.s. [from nail.] One whose trade is to forge nails; a nail-maker.

Naked
Na'ked. adj. [nacoꝺ, Saxon.]

 Wanting cloaths; uncovered; bare.
A philosopher being asked in what a wise man differed from a fool? answered, send them both naked to those who know them not, and you shall perceive. Bacon, Apophth. 242.
        He pitying how they stoodBefore him naked to the air, that nowMust suffer change;As father of his family, he cladTheir nakedness with skins of beasts. Milton, P. Lost.
                Ungrateful men,Behold my bosom naked to your swords,And let the man that's injur'd strike the blow. Addison.
 Unarmed; defenceless; unprovided.
Had I but serv'd my God with half the zealI serv'd my king, he would not in mine ageHave left we naked to mine enemies. Shakes. Henry VIII.
 Plain; evident; not hidden.
The truth appears so naked on my side,That any purblind eye may find it out. Shakes. Hen. VI.
 Mere; bare; wanting the necessary additions; simple; abstracted.
Not that God doth require nothing unto happiness at the hands of men, saving only a naked belief, for hope and charity we may not exclude; but that without belief all other things are as nothing, and it is the ground of those other divine virtues. Hooker, b. i. p. 37.

Nakedly
Na'kedly. adv.

 Without covering.

 Simply; merely; barely; in the abstract.
Though several single letters nakedly considered, are found to be articulations only of spirit or breath, and not of breath vocalized; yet there is that property in all letters of aptness, to be conjoined in syllables. Holder.
 Discoverably; evidently.
So blinds the sharpest counsels of the wiseThis overshadowing Providence on high,And dazzleth all their clearest sighted eyes,That they see not how nakedly they lie. Daniel Civil War.

Nakedness
Na'kedness. n.s. [from naked.]

 Nudity; want of covering.
            My face I'll grime with filth;And with presented nakedness out-faceThe winds and persecutions of the sky. Sha. K. Lear.
Nor he their outward only, with the skinsOf beasts; but inward nakedness, much moreOpprobrious! with his robe of rightcousnessArraying, cover'd from his father's sight. Milton.
I entreat my gentle readers to sow on their tuckers again, and not to imitate the nakedness, but the innocence of their mother Eve. Addison's Guard. №. 100.
Thou to be strong must put off every dress,Thy only armour is thy nakedness. Prior.
 Want of provision for defence.
Spies, to see the nakedness of the land are come. Gen. xlii. 9.
 Plainness; evidence; want of concealment.
Why seek'st thou to cover with excuseThat which appears in proper nakedness? Shakes.

Nall
Nall. n.s. An awl, such as collar-makers use. Tusser.
Whole bridle and saddle, whitleather and nall,With collars and harness. Tusser's Husb.

Name (noun)
Name. n.s. [nama, Saxon; naem, Dutch; anam, Erse.]

 The discriminative appellation of an individual.
What is thy name?Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.No: though thou call'st thyself a hotter nameThan any is in hell.My name's Macbeth. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
He called their names after the names his father had called them. Gen. xxvi. 18.
I know thee by name. Ex. xxxiii. 17.
 The term by which any kind or species is distinguished.
What's in a name? That which we call a rose,By any other name would smell as sweet. Shakes.
If every particular idea that we take in, should have a distinct name, names must be endless. Locke.
 Person.
They lift with women each degen'rate name,Who dares not hazard life for future fame. Dryden.
 Reputation; character.
The king's army was the last enemy the west had been acquainted with, and had left no good name behind. Clarendon, b. viii.
 Renown; fame; celebrity; eminence; praise; remembrance; memory; distinction; honour.
What men of name resort to him?Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew,And many others of great name and worth. Shakes.
Visit eminent persons of great name abroad; to tell how the life agreeth with the fame. Bacon's Essays, №. 19.
Here rest thy bones in rich Hesperia's plains,Thy name, 'tis all a ghost can have, remains. Dryden.
            A hundred knightsApprov'd in fight, and men of mighty name. Dryden.
These shall be towns of mighty fame,Tho' now they lie obscure, and lands without a name. Dryden, Æn. vi.
Bartolus is of great name; whose authority is as much valued amongst the modern lawyers, as Papinian's was among the ancients. Baker's Reflect. on Learning.
 Power delegated; imputed character.
        In the name of the people,And in the power of us the tribunes, weBanish him. Shakespeare's Coriolanus.
 Fictitious imputation.
When Ulysses with fallacious arts,Had forg'd a treason in my patron's name,My kinsman fell. Dryden, Æn.
 Appearance; not reality; assumed character.
I'll to him again, in the name of Brook;He'll tell me all his purpose. Sha. Mer. W. of Windsor.
There is a friend which is only a friend in name. Ecclus. xxxvii.
 An opprobrious appellation.
Bids her confess; calls her ten thousand names;In vain she kneels. Granvil's Poems.
Like the watermen of ThamesI row by, and call them names. Swift's Miscel.

Name (verb)
To Name. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To discriminate by a particular appellation.
I mention here a son of the king's whom FlorizelI now name to you; and with speed so paceTo speak of Perdita. Shakespeare's Win. Tale.
Thou hast had seven husbands, neither wast thou named after any of them. Tob. iii. 8.
His name was called Jesus, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived. Luke ii. 21.
 To mention by name.
Accustom not thy mouth to swearing: neither use thyself to the naming of the Holy One. Ecclus. xxiii. 9.
 To specify; to nominate.
Did my father's godson seek your life?He whom my father nam'd? your Edgar. Shakespeare.
Bring me him up whom I shall name. 1 Sam. xxviii. 8.
Let any one name that proposition, whose terms or ideas were either of them innate. Locke.
 To utter; to mention.
Let my name be named on them. Gen. xlviii. 16.

Nameless
Námeless. adj. [from name.]

 Not distinguished by any discriminative appellation.
On the cold earth lies th' unregarded king,A headless carcass, and a nameless thing. Denham.
            The milky way,Fram'd of many nameless stars. Waller.
Thy reliques, Rowe, to this fair shrine we trust,And sacred, place by Dryden's awful dust;Beneath a rude and nameless stone he lies,To which thy tomb shall guide enquiring eyes. Pope.
 One of which the name is not known or mentioned.
Little credit is due to accusations of this kind, when they come from suspected, that is, from nameless pens. Atterbury's Sermons.

Namely
Námely. adv. [from name.] Particularly; specially; to mention by name.
It can be to nature no injury, that of her we say the same which diligent beholders of her works have observed; namely, that she provideth for all living creatures nourishment which may suffice. Hooker, b. iii. s. 4.
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?To none of these, except it be the last;Namely, some love that drew him oft from home. Sha.
The council making remonstrances unto queen Elizabeth, of the continual conspiracies against her life; and namely, that a man was lately taken, who stood ready in a very dangerous and suspicious manner to do the deed; advised her to go less abroad weakly attended.  But the queen answered, that she had rather be dead, than put in custody. Bacon, Apophth. 14.
For the excellency of the soul, namely, its power of divining in dreams; that several such divinations have been made, none can question. Addison's Spectator.
Solomon's choice does not only instruct us in that point of history, but furnishes out a very fine moral to us; namely, that he who applies his heart to wisdom, does at the same time take the most proper method for gaining long life, riches, and reputation. Addison's Guardian.

Namer
Námer. n.s. [name.] One who calls or knows any by name.

Namesake
Námesake. n.s. One that has the same name with another.
Nor does the dog fish at sea, much more make out the dog of land, than that his cognominal, or namesake in the heavens. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. iii.
One author is a mole to another: it is impossible for them to discover beauties; they have eyes only for blemishes: they can indeed see the light, as is said of their namesakes; but immediately shut their eyes. Addison's Spectator.

Nap
Nap. n.s. [hnœppan, Saxon, to sleep.]

 Slumber; a short sleep.
Mopsa sat swallowing of sleep with open mouth making such a noise, as no body could lay the stealing of a nap to her charge. Sidney, b. ii.
            Let your bountyTake a nap, and I will awake it anon. Shakespeare.
The sun had long since in the lapOf Thetis, taken out his nap. Hudibras, p. ii.
So long as I'm at the forge you are still taking your nap. L'Estrange, Fab.
 [hnoppa, Saxon.] Down; villous substance.
Amongst those leaves she made a butterflyWith excellent device and wondrous flight;The velvet nap, which on his wings doth lie,The silken down, with which his back is dight. Spenser.
Jack Cade the clothier, means to dress the Commonwealth, and set a new nap upon it. Shakes.
Plants, though they have no prickles, have a kind of downy or velvet rind upon their leaves; which down or nap cometh of a subtil spirit, in a soft or fat substance. Bacon.
Ah! where must needy poet seek for aidWhen dust and rain at once his coat invade;His only coat! where dust confus'd with rainRoughens the nap, and leaves a mingled stain. Swift.

Nape
Nape. n.s. [Of uncertain etymology. Skinner imagines it to come from nap, the hair that grows on it; Junius, with his usual Greek sagacity, from νάπη, a hill; perhaps from the same root with knob.] The joint of the neck behind.
Turn your eyes towards the napes of your necks, and make but an interiour survey of your good selves. Shakes.
Domitian dreamed, the night before he was slain, that a golden head was growing out of the nape of his neck. Bacon.

Napery
Nápery. n.s. [naperia, Italian.] Table-linen. Dict.

Naphew
Náphew. n.s. [napus, Lat.] An herb.

Naphtha
Náphtha. n.s. [naphtha, Latin.]
Naphtha is a very pure, clear, and thin mineral fluid, of a very pale yellow, with a cast of brown in it.  It is soft and oily to the touch, of a sharp and unpleasing taste, and of a brisk and penetrating smell; of the bituminous kind.  It is extremely ready to take fire, and in places where it is frequent, it exhales a vapour that takes fire at the approach of any flame, and burns to a great distance, sometimes spreading in an instant over half a mile or more of ground, and continuing alight a great while.  It is found floating on the waters of springs.  It is principally used externally in paralytick cases, and in pains of the limbs. Hill's Mat. Med.
Strabo represents it as a liquation of bitumen.  It swims on the top of the water of wells and springs.  That found about Babylon is in some springs whitish, tho' it be generally black, and differs little from Petroleum. Woodward.

Napp
To Napp. v.a. [hnœppan, Saxon.] To sleep; to be drowsy or secure.
They took him napping in his bed. Hudibras, p. i.
A wolf took a dog napping at his master's door. L'Estran.
What is seriously related by Helmont, that foul linen, stopt in a vessel that hath wheat in it, will in twenty-one days time turn the wheat into mice; without conjuring, one may guess to have been the philosophy and information of some housewife, who had not so carefully covered her wheat, but that the mice could come at it, and were there taken napping, just when they had made an end of their good chear. Bentley's Sermons.

Naptaking
Náptaking. n.s. [nap and take.] Surprize; seizure on a sudden; unexpected onset, like that made on men asleep.
Naptakings, assaults, spoilings, and firings, have in our forefather's days, between us and France, been very common. Carew.

Nasicornous
Násicornous. adj. [nasus and cornu.] Having the horn on the nose.
 Some unicorns are among insects; as those four kinds of nasicornous beetles described by Muffetus. Brown's V. Err.

Nasty
Násty. adj. [nast, nat, German, wet.]

 Dirty; filthy; sordid; nauseous; polluted.
 Sir Thomas More, in his answer to Luther, has thrown out the greatest heap of nasty language that perhaps ever was put together. Atterbury.
 A nice man, is a man of nasty ideas. Swfit.
 Obscene; leud.

Nature
Náture. n.s. [natura, Latin; nature, French.]

 An imaginary being supposed to preside over the material and animal world.
 Thou, nature, art my goddess; to thy law My services are bound. Shakespeare's K. Lear.
 When it was said to Anaxagoras, the Athenians have condemned you to die; he said again, and nature them. Bacon. Let the postilion nature mount, and let The coachman art be set. Cowley.
                 Heav'n bestows At home all riches that wise nature needs. Cowley.
 Simple nature to his hope has giv'n,Beyond the cloud-topt hill an humbler heav'n. Pope.
 The native state or properties of any thing, by which it is discriminated from others.
 Between the animal and rational province, some animals have a dark resemblance of the influxes of reason: so between the corporeal and intellectual world, there is man participating much of both natures. Hale's Orig. of Mankind.
 The constitution of an animated body.
 Nature, as it grows again tow'rd earth, Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy. Shakes.
             We're not ourselves, When nature, being opprest, commands the mind To suffer with the body. Shakespeare's King Lear.
 Disposition of mind; temper.
 Nothing could have subdu'd nature To such a lowness but his unkind daughters. Shakes.
A credulous father, and a brother noble, Whose nature is so far from doing harms, That he suspects none; on whose foolish honesty My practices ride easy. Shakespeare's King Lear.
 The regular course of things.
                         My end Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence. Shakes.
 The compass of natural existence.
 If their dam may be judge, the young apes are the most beautiful things in nature. Glanv.
 Natural affection, or reverence; native sensations.
             Have we not seen The murd'ring son ascend his parent's bed, Thro' violated nature force his way, And stain the sacred womb where once he lay? Pope.
 The state or operation of the material world.
 He binding nature fast in fate, Left conscience free and will. Pope.
 Sort; species.
 A dispute of this nature caused mischief in abundance betwixt a king and an archbishop. Dryden.
 Sentiments or images adapted to nature, or conformable to truth and reality.
 Only nature can please those tastes which are unprejudiced and refined. Addison.
 Nature and Homer were he found the same. Pope.
 Physics; the science which teaches the qualities of things.
 Nature and nature's laws lay hid in night,God said, let Newton be, and all was light. Pope.

Naumachy
Naúmachy. n.s. [naumachie, Fr. naumachia, Latin.] A mock sea fight.

Nay
Nay. adv. [na, Saxon, or ne aye.]

 No; an adverb of negation.
Disputes in wrangling spend the day,Whilst one says only yea, and t'other nay. Denham.
 Not only so but more. A word of amplification.
A good man always profits by his endeavour, yea, when he is absent; nay, when dead, by his example and memory; so good authors in their stile. Ben. Johnson's Discov.
This is then the allay of Ovid's writings, which is sufficiently recompensed by his other excellencies; nay, this very fault is not without its beauties; for the most severe censor cannot but be pleased. Dryden.
If a son should strike his father, not only the criminal but his whole family would be rooted out, nay, the inhabitants of the place where he lived, would be put to the sword, nay, the place itself would be razed. Addis. Spect. № 180.
 Word of refusal.
They have beaten us openly uncondemned, being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us out privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us out. Acts xvi. 37.
The fox made several excuses, but the stork would not be said nay; so that at last he promised him to come. L'Estrange, Fable 31.
He that will not when he may,When he would he shall have nay. Prov.

Necromancer
Nécromancer. n.s. [νεκρὸς and μάντις.] One who by charms can converse with the ghosts of the dead; a conjurer; an inchanter.
I am employed like the general who was forced to kill his enemies twice over, whom a necromancer had raised to life. Swift's Miscellanies.

Necromancy
Nécromancy. n.s. [νεκρὸς and μάντις; necromance, Fr.]

 The art of revealing future events, by communication with the dead.
The resurrection of Samuel is nothing, but delusion in the practice of necromancy and popular conception of ghosts. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. i.
 Enchantment; conjuration.
He did it partly by necromancy, wherein he was much skilled. Abbot's Description of the World.
This palace standeth in the air,By necromancy placed there,That it no tempests needs to fear. Drayt. Nym.

Neese
To Neese. v.n. [nyse, Danish; niesen, Dutch.] To sneese; to discharge flatulencies by the nose. Retained in Scotland.
He went up and stretched himself upon him; and the child neesed seven times, and opened his eyes. 2 Kings iv. 35.
By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the eye-lids of the morning. Job xli. 18.

Nepenthe
Népenthe. n.s. [νὴ and πένθος.] A drug that drives away all pains.
There where no passion, pride, or shame transport,Lull'd with the sweet nepenthe of a court;There where no fathers, brothers, friends disgrace,Once break their rest nor stir them from their place. Pope.

Nescience
Nescience. n.s. [from nescio, Latin.] Ignorance; the state of not knowing.
Many of the most accomplished wits of all ages, have resolved their knowledge into Socrates his sum total, and after all their pains in quest of science, have sat down in a professed nescience. Glanv. Sceps. c. ii.

Net
Net. n.s. [nati, Gothick; net, Saxon.] A texture woven with large interstices or meshes, used commonly as a snare for animals.
Poor bird! thoud'st never fear the net, nor lime,The pitball nor the gin. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
He made nets of chequer-work for the chapiters, upon the top of the pillars. 1 Kings vii. 17.
Impatience intangles us like the fluttering of a bird in a net, but cannot at all ease our troubles. Taylor's Holy Living.
            The vegetative tribes,Wrapt in a filmy net, and clad with leaves. Thomson.

Network
Nétwork. n.s. [net and work.] Any thing reticulated or decussated, at equal distances, with interstices between the intersections.
Nor any skill'd in workmanship emboss'd;Nor any skill'd in loops of fing'ring fine;Might in their diverse cunning ever dare,With this so curious network to compare. Spenser.
A large cavity in the sinciput was filled with ribbons, lace, and embroidery, wrought together in a curious piece of network. Addison's Spectator.

New (adjective)
New. adj. [newyd, Welsh; neow, Saxon; neuf, Fr.]

 Not old; fresh; lately produced, made or had; novel. It is used of things: as, young of persons.
What's the newest grief? —— That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker;Each minute teems a new one. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
Do not all men complain how little we know, and how much is still unknown? And can we ever know more, unless something new be discovered? Burnet.
 Modern; of the present time.
Whoever converses much among old books, will be something hard to please among new. Temple's Miscellanies.
 Not antiquated; having the effect of novelty.
There names inscrib'd unnumber'd ages pastFrom time's first birth, with time itself shall last;These ever new, nor subject to decays,Spread and grow brighter with the length of days. Pope.
 Not habituated; not familiar.
Such assemblies, though had for religion's sake, may serve the turn of heretics, and such as privily will instil their poison into new minds. Hooker, b. v.
Seiz'd with wonder and delight,Gaz'd all around me, new to the transporting sight. Dryd.
Twelve mules, a strong laborious race,New to the plough, unpractis'd in the trace. Pope.
 Renovated; repaired, so as to recover the first state.
Men after long emaciating diets, wax plump, fat, and almost new. Bacon's Natural History.
 Fresh after any thing.
Nor dare we trust so soft a messenger,New from her sickness to that northern air. Dryden.
 Not of ancient extraction.
A superior capacity for business, and a more extensive knowledge, are steps by which a new man often mounts to favour, and outshines the rest of his contemporaries. Addis.

Nice


Niche


Nickname (noun)
Nicknáme. n.s. [nom de nique, French.] A name given in scoff or contempt; a term of derision; an opprobrious or contemptuous appellation.
The time was when men were had in price for learning; now letters only make men vile.  He is upbraidingly called a poet, as if it were a contemptible nickname. Ben. Johnson.
My mortal enemy hath not only falsely surmised me to be a feigned person, giving me nicknames, but also hath offered large sums of money to corrupt the princes with whom I have been retained. Bacon's Hen. VII.
So long as her tongue was at liberty, there was not a word to be got from her, but the same nickname in derision. L'Estrange.

Nickname (verb)
To Nicknáme. v.a. To call by an opprobrious appellation.
You nickname virtue vice;For virtue's office never breaks men's troth. Shakes.
Less seem these facts which treasons nickname force,Than such a fear'd ability for more. Denham.

Nictate
To Níctate. v.a. [nicto, Latin.] To wink.
There are several parts peculiar to brutes, which are wanting in man; as the seventh or suspensory muscle of the eye, the nictating membrane, and the strong aponeuroses on the sides of the neck. Ray.

Night


Nim
To Nim. v.a. [nemen, Dutch, to take.] To take. In cant, to steal.
They'll question Mars, and by his lookDetect who 'twas that nimm'd a cloak. Hudibras, p. i.
They could not keep themselves honest of their fingers, but would be nimming something or other for the love of thieving. L'Estrange, Fable 241.

Nimiety
Nímiety. n.s. [nimietas, school Latin.] The state of being too much.

Nimmer
Nímmer. n.s. [from nim.] A thief; a pilferer.

Nincompoop
Níncompoop. n.s. [A corruption of the Latin non compos.] A fool; a trifler.
An old ninnyhammer, a dotard, a nincompoop, is the best language she can afford me. Addison.

Ninny
Nínny. n.s. [ninno, a child, Spanish.] A fool; a simpleton.
What a pied ninny's this? Shakespeare's Tempest.
The dean was so shabby, and look'd like a ninny,That the captain suppos'd he was curate. Swift.

Ninnyhammer
Nínnyhammer. n.s. [from ninny.] A simpleton.
Another vents her passion in scurrilous terms; an old ninny-hammer, a dotard, a nincompoop, is the best language she can afford me. Addison's Guardian, № 109.
Have you no more manners than to rail at Hocus, that has saved that clod-pated, numskull'd, ninny-hammer of yours from ruin, and all his family. Arbuth. John Bull.

Nipple
Nípple. n.s. [nẏpele, Saxon.]

 The teat; the dug; that which the suckling young take into their mouths.
Tho' tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me. —I would, while it was smiling in my face,Have pluckt my nipple from his boneless gums. Shakesp.
In creatures that nourish their young with milk, are adapted the nipples of the breast to the mouth and organs of suction. Ray on the Creation.
 The orifice at which any animal liquor is separated.
In most other birds there is only one gland, in which are divers little cells ending in two or three larger cells, lying under the nipple of the oil bag. Derham's Physico Theol.

Nipplewort
Nípplewort. n.s. [Lampsana.] A very common weed.

Nisi Prius
Nisi Prius. n.s.
[In law.] A judicial writ, which lieth in case where the inquest is panelled, and returned before the justices of the bank; the one party or the other making petition to have this writ for the ease of the country.  It is directed to the sheriff, commanding that he cause the men impanelled to come before the justices in the same county, for the determining of the cause there, except it be so difficult that it need great deliberation: in which case, it is sent again to the bank.  It is so called from the first words of the writ nisi apud talem locum prius venerint; whereby it appeareth, that justices of affizes and justices of nisi prius, differ. So that justices of nisi prius, must be one of them before whom the cause is depending in the bench, with some other good men of the county associated to him. Cowel.

Nival
Níval. adj. [nivalis, Latin.] Abounding with snow. Dict.

Niveous
Níveous. adj. [niveus, Latin.] Snowy; resembling snow.
Cinabar becomes red by the acid exhalation of sulphur, which otherways presents a pure and niveous white. Brown.

Nizy
Nízy. n.s. A dunce; a simpleton. A low word.

No (adjective)
No. adj.

 Not any; none.
Let their be no strife between me and thee. Gen. xiii. 8.
Woman and fool are two hard things to hit,For true no meaning puzzles more than wit. Pope.
 It seems an adjective in these phrases, no longer, no more, no where.
When we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel. 1 Sam. x. 14.
In vain I reach my feeble hands to joinIn sweet embraces; ah! no longer thine. Dryden.
 No one; none; not any one.
No one who doeth good to those only from whom he expects to receive good, can ever be fully satisfied of his own sincerity. Smalridge's Serm.

No (adverb)
No. adv. [na, Saxon.]

 The word of refusal.
                    Our courteous Antony,Whom ne'er the word of no, woman heard speak,Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast. Shakes.
Henceforth my wooing mind shall be exprest,In rosset yeas and honest kersy noes. Sha. L. Labours Lost.
If you will not consider these things now, the time will shortly come when you shall consider them whether you will or no. Calamy's Serm.
 The word of denial opposite to concession or affirmation.
I think it would not sort amiss, to handle the question, whether a war for the propagation of the Christian faith, without another cause of hostility, be lawful or no, and in what cases? Bacon.
 It sometimes confirms a foregoing negative.
            My name's Macbeth: —— The Devil himself could not pronounce a titleMore hateful to mine ear. —— No, nor more fearful. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
                            Never moreThis hand shall combat on the crooked shore:No; let the Grecian pow'rs opprest in fight,Unpity'd perish in their tyrant's sight. Dryd. Homer.
 It sometimes strengthens a following negative; no not, not even.
No not the bow which so adorns the skies,So glorious is, or boasts so many dies. Waller.

Noctambulo
Noctámbulo. n.s. [nox and ambulo, Latin.] One who walks in his sleep.
 Respiration being carried on in sleep, is no argument against its being voluntary. What shall we say of noctambulo's? There are voluntary motions carried on without thought, to avoid pain. Arbuthnot on Air.

Nodosity
Nodósity. n.s. [from nodosus, Latin.] Complication; knot.
 These the midwife cutteth off, contriving them into a knot close unto the body of the infant; from whence ensueth that tortuosity, or complicated nodosity we call the navel. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. v.

Noggin
Nóggin. n.s. [nossel, German.] A small mug.
All this while Frog laughed in his sleeve, gave the esquire the other noggin of brandy, and clapped him on the back. Arbuthnot's Hist. of J. Bull.

Noie
To Noie. v.a. To annoy. An old word disused.
Let servant be ready with mattock in hand,To stub out the bushes that noieth the land. Tuss. Husb.

Nomenclator
Nomenclátor. n.s. [Lat. nomenclateur, Fr.] One who calls things or persons by their proper names.
 There were a set of men in old Rome called nomenclators; that is, men who could call every man by his name. Addison's Guardian, №. 107.
 Are envy, pride, avarice, and ambition, such ill nomenclators that they cannot furnish appellations for their owners? Swift.

Nomenclature
Nomencláture. n.s. [nomenclature, Fr. nomenclatura, Lat.]

 The act of naming.
 To say where notions cannot fitly be reconciled, that there wanteth a term or nomenclature for it, is  but a shift of ignorance. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 A vocabulary; a dictionary.
 The watry plantations fall not under that nomenclature of Adam, which unto terrestrious animals assigned a name appropriate unto their natures. Brown's V. Err.

Non
Non. v.a. [Latin.] Not. It is never used separately, but sometimes prefixed to words with a negative power.
Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,And I partly know the instrumentThat screws me from my true place in your favour;Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still. Shakes.
A mere inclination to matters of duty, men reckon a willing of that thing; when they are justly charged with an actual non-performance of what the law requires? South.
For an account at large of Bishop Sanderson's last judgment concerning God's concurrence, or non-concurrence with the actions of men, and the positive entity of sins of commission, I refer you to his letters. Pierce.
The third sort of agreement or disagreement in our ideas, which the perception of the mind is employed about, is coexistence, or non-existence in the same subject. Locke.
It is not a non-act, which introduces a custom, a custom being a common usage. Ayliffe's Parergon.
In the imperial chamber this answer is not admitted, viz. I do not believe it as the matter is alledged. And the reason of this non-admission is, because of its great uncertainty. Ayliffe's Parergon.
An apparitor came to the church, and informed the parson, that he must pay the tenths to such a man; and the bishop certified the ecclesiastical court under his seal on the non-payment of them, that he refused to pay them. Ayliffe.
The non-appearance of persons to support the united sense of both houses of parliament, can never be construed as a general diffidence of being able to support the charge against the patent and patentee. Swift.
This may be accounted for by the turbulence of passions upon the various and surprising turns of good and evil fortune, in a long evening at play; the mind being wholly taken up, and the consequence of non-attention so fatal. Swift.

Nonnaturals
Nonnáturals. n.s. [non naturalia.]
Physicians reckon these to be six, viz. air, meat and drink, sleep and watching, motion and rest, retention and excretion, and the passions of the mind.
The six nonnaturals are such as neither naturally constitutive, nor merely destructive, do preserve or destroy according unto circumstance. Brown's V. Err.

Nonpareil
Nonparéil. n.s. [non and pareil, French.]

 Excellence unequalled.
My lord and master loves you: O such loveCould be but recompens'd tho' you were crown'dThe nonpareil of beauty. Shakes. Twelfth Night.
 A kind of apple.

 Printers letter of a small size, on which small Bibles and Common Prayers are printed.

Nonplus (noun)
Nónplus. n.s. [non and plus, Latin.] Puzzle; inability to say or do more. A low word.
Let it seem never so strange and impossible, the nonplus of my reason will yield a fairer opportunity to my faith. South.
One or two rules, on which their conclusions depend, in most men have governed all their thoughts: take these from them and they are at a loss, and their understanding is perfectly at a nonplus. Locke.
Such an artist did not begin the matter at a venture, and when put to a nonplus, pause and hesitate which way he should proceed; but he had first in his comprehensive intellect a compleat idea of the whole organical body. Bentley.

Nonplus (verb)
To Nónplus. v.a. [from the noun.] To be confound; to puzzle; to put to a stand; to stop.
Nor is the composition of our own bodies the only wonder; we are as much nonplust by the most contemptible worm and plant. Glanv. Scept. c. viii.
        His parts were so accomplisht,That right or wrong he ne'er was nonplust. Hudibras.
That sin that is a pitch beyond all those, must needs be such an one as must nonplus the devil himself to proceed farther. South.
What, you are confounded, and stand mute?Somewhat nonplust to hear you deny your name. Dryden.
Tom has been cloquent for half an hour together, when he has been nonplused by Mr. Dry's desiring him to tell what it was that he endeavoured to prove. Spect. 471.

Nostrum
Nóstrum. n.s. [Latin.] A medicine not yet made publick, but remaining in some single hand.
 Very extraordinary, and one of his nostrums, let it be writ upon his monument, Hic jacet auctor hujus argumenti; for no body ever used it before. Stillingfleet.
 What drop or nostrum can this plague remove? Pope.

Notus
Nótus. n.s. [Latin.] The southwind.
With adverse blast upturns them from the south,Notus and Afer black, with thund'rous cloudsfrom Sierra Liona. Milton's Par. Lost, b. x.

Nought


Noul


Nould
Nould. Ne would; would not. Spenser.

Novator
Novátor. n.s. [Latin.] The introducer of something new.

Novel (adjective)
Nóvel. adj. [novellus, Latin; nouvelle, French.]

 New; not ancient; not used of old; unusual.
The Presbyterians are exacters of submission to their novel injunctions, before they are stamped with the authority of laws. King Charles.
It is no novel usurpation, but though void of other title, has the prescription of many ages. Decay of Piety.
 [In the civil law.] Appendant to the code, and of later enaction.
By the novel constitutions, burial may not be denied to any one. Ayliffe's Parergon.

Novel (noun)
Nóvel. n.s. [nouvelle, French.]

 A small tale, generally of love.
Nothing of a foreign nature; like the trifling novels which Ariosto inserted in his poems. Dryden.
Her mangl'd fame in barb'rous pastime lost,The coxcomb's novel and the drunkard's toast. Prior.
 A law annexed to the code.
By the civil law, no one was to be ordained a presbyter till he was thirty-five years of age: though by a later novel it was sufficient, if he was above thirty. Ayliffe's Par.

November
Novémber. n.s. [Latin.] The eleventh month of the year, or the ninth reckoned from March, which was, when the Romans named the months, accounted the first.
November is drawn in a garment of changeable green, and black upon his head. Peacham on Drawing.

Novercal
Novécal. adj. [novercalis, from noverca, Latin.] Having the manner of a stepmother; becoming a stepmother.
When the whole tribe of birds by incubation, produce their young, it is a wonderful deviation, that some few families should do it in a more novercal way. Derham.

Novice


Novitiate
Nóvitiate. n.s. [noviciat, French.]

 The state of a novice; the time in which the rudiments are learned.
 This is so great a masterpiece in sin, that he must have passed his tyrocinium or novitiate in sinning, before he come to this, be he never so quick a proficient. South's Sermons.
 The time spent in a religious house, by way of trial, before the vow is taken.

Novity
Nóvity. n.s. [novitas, Latin.] Newness; novelty.
 Some conceive she might not yet be certain, that only man was privileged with speech, and being in the novity of the creation and unexperience of all things, might now be affrighted to hear a serpent speak. Brown's V. Err.

Noxious
Nóxious. adj. [noxius, Latin.]

 Hurtful; harmful; baneful; mischievous; destructive; pernicious; unwholsome.
Preparation and correction, is not only by addition of other bodies, but separation of noxious parts from their own. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. iv.
Kill noxious creatures, where 'tis sin to save,This only just prerogative we have. Dryden.
See pale Orion sheds unwholsome dews,Arise, the pines a noxious shade disfuse;Sharp Boreas blows, and nature feels decay,Time conquers all, and we must time obey. Pope.
Too frequent an appearance in places of much resort, is noxious to spiritual promotions. Swift's Miscell.
 Guilty; criminal.
Those who are noxious in the eye of the law, are justly punished by them to whom the execution of the law is committed. Bramhall against Hobbs.

Noxiousness
Nóxiousness. n.s. [from noxious.] Hurtfulness; insalubrity.
The writers of politicks have warned us of the noxiousness of this doctrine to all civil governments, which the christian religion is very far from disturbing. Hammond.

Nubble
To Núbble. v.a. To bruise with handy cuffs. Ains.

Nudation
Núdation. n.s. [nudation nudo, Latin.] The act of making bare or naked.

Nullibiety
Nullibíety. n.s. [from nullibi, Latin.] The state of being nowhere.

Nuptials
Núptials. n.s. like the Latin without singular. [nuptiæ, Lat.]

 Marriage.
 This is the triumph of the nuptial day, My better nuptials, which in spite of fate, For ever join me to my dear Morat. Dryd. Aurengz.
 It is in Shakespeare singular, but contrarily to use.
 Lift up your countenance, as 'twere the day Of celebration of that nuptial, which We two have sworn shall come. Shakes. W. Tale.

Nut
Nut. n.s. [hnut, Saxon; noot, Dutch; noix, Fr.]

 The fruit of certain trees; it consists of a kernel covered by a hard shell.  If the shell and kernel are in the center of a pulpy fruit, they then make not a nut but a stone.
          One chanc'd to find a nutIn the end of which a hole was cut,Which lay upon a hazel-root,There scatter'd by a squirrel;Which out the kernel gotten had;When quoth this Fay, dear queen be glad,Let Oberon be ne'er so mad,I'll set you safe from peril. Drayt. Nymphid.
Nuts are hard of digestion, yet possess some good medicinal qualities. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 A small body with teeth, which correspond with the teeth of wheels.
The force of this faculty may be more conveniently used by the multiplication of several wheels, together with nuts belonging unto each, that are used for the roasting of meat. Wilkin's Mathem. Magick.
Clocks and jacks, though the screws and teeth of the wheels and nuts be never so smooth, yet if they be not oiled, will hardly move. Ray on the Creation.

Nutbrown
Nútbrown. adj. [nut and brown.] Brown like a nut kept long.
Young and old come forth to play,Till the live-long daylight fail,Then to the spicy nutbrown ale. Milton's Poems.
When this nutbrown sword was out,With stomach huge he laid about. Hudibras, p. i.
Two milk-white kids run frisking by her side,For which the nutbrown lass, Erithacis,Full often offer'd many a savoury kiss. Dryden.
King Hardicnute, midst Danes and Saxons stout,Carous'd in nutbrown ale, and din'd on grout. King.

Nutcrackers
Nútcrackers. n.s. [nut and crack.] An instrument used to enclose nuts and break them by pressure.
He cast every human feature out of his countenance, and became a pair of nutcrackers. Addison's Spectator.

Nutgall
Nútgall n.s. [nut and gall.] Excrescence of an oak.
In vegetable excretions, maggots terminate in flies of constant shapes, as in the nutgalls of the outlandish oak. Brown.

Nuthatch
Núthatch.Nútjobber.Nútpecker.

n.s. A bird. Ains.

Nuthook
Núthook. n.s. [nut and hook.] A stick with a hook at the end to pull down boughs that the nuts may be gathered.
Nuthook, Nuthook, you lie. Shakesp. Henry IV.

Nutjobber
Núthatch.Nútjobber.Nútpecker.

n.s. A bird. Ains.

Nutmeg
Nútmeg. n.s. [nut and muguèt, French.]
The nutmeg is a kernel of a large fruit not unlike the peach, and separated from that and from its investient coat, the mace before it is sent over to us; except that the whole fruit is sometimes sent over in preserve, by way of sweet-meat or as a curiosity.  The nutmeg is of a roundish or oval figure, of a compact or firm texture, and its surface furrowed: it is of an extremely agreeable smell and an aromatick taste.  There are two kinds of nutmeg; the male which is long and cylindrical, but it has less of the fine aromatick flavour than the female, which is of the shape of an olive.  The Dutch import the nutmegs and mace from the East-Indies, and supply all Europe with them.  The tree which produces them is not unlike our pear-tree in its manner of growth: its leaves, whether green or dried, have, when bruised, a very fragrant smell; and the trunk or branches, cut or broken off, yield a red liquor like blood.  This tree is carefully cultivated.  But that which produces the male nutmeg grows wild in the mountainous parts of the Moluccas.  Nutmeg is much used in our foods, and is of excellent virtues as a medicine.  Hill.
The second a dry and flosculous coat, commonly called mace; the fourth a kernel included in the shell, which lieth under the mace, is the same we call nutmeg. Brown's V. Err.
I to my pleasant gardens went,Where nutmegs breathe a fragrant scent. Sandys.

Nutpecker
Núthatch.Nútjobber.Nútpecker.

n.s. A bird. Ains.

Nutrication
Nutricátion. n.s. [nutricatio, Lat.] Manner of feeding or being fed.
Besides the teeth, the tongue of this animal is a second argument to overthrow this airy nutrication. Brown.

Nutriment
Nútriment. n.s. [nutrimentum, Latin.] That which feeds or nourishes; food; aliment.
                          This slaveHas my lord's meat in him,Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment? Shakesp.
The stomach returns what it has received, in strength and nutriment, diffused into all the parts of the body. South.
Does not the body thrive and grow,By food of twenty years ago?And is not virtue in mankind,The nutriment that feeds the mind? Swift's Miscell.

Nutrimental
Nutriméntal. adj. [from nutriment.] Having the qualities of food; alimental.
By virtue of this oil vegetables are nutrimental, for this oil is extracted by animal digestion as an emulsion. Arb.

Nutrition
Nutrítion. n.s. [from nutritio, nutrio, Lat. nutrition, Fr.] The act or quality of nourishing, supporting strength, or encreasing growth.
New parts are added to our substance to supply our continual decayings; nor can we give a certain account how the aliment is so prepared for nutrition, or by what mechanism it is so regularly distributed. Glanv. Sceps. c. iii.
The obstruction of the glands of the mesentery is a great impediment to nutrition; for the lymph in those glands is a necessary constituent of the aliment before it mixeth with the blood. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
Fix'd like a plant on his peculiar spot,To draw nutrition, propagate, and rot. Pope.

Nutritious
Nutri'tious. adj. [from nutrio, Latin.] Having the quality of nourishing.
              O may'st thou often seeThy furrows whiten'd by the woolly rainNutritious! secret nitre lurks within. Philips.
The heat equal to incubation is only nutritious; and the nutritious juice itself resembles the white of an egg in all its qualities. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Nutritive
Nútritive. adj. [from nutrio, Latin.] Nourishing; nutrimental, alimental.

Nutriture
Nútriture. n.s. [from nutrio, Latin.] The power of nourishing.
Never make a meal of flesh alone, have some other meat with it of less nutriture. Harvey on Consump.

Nutshell
Nútshell. n.s. [nut and shell.] The hard substance that incloses the kernel of the nut.
I could be bounded in a nutshell, and count myself a king of infinite space. Shakespeare's Hamlet.
A fox had me by the back, and a thousand pound to a nutshell, I had never got off again. L'Estrange.
It seems as easy to me, to have the idea of space empty of body, as to think of the hollow of a nutshell without a kernel. Locke.

Nuttree
Núttree. n.s. [nut and tree.] A tree that bears nuts; ahazle.
Of trees you shall have the nuttree and the oak. Peacham.
Like beating nuttrees, makes a larger crop. Dryden.

Nuzzle
To Núzzle. v.a. [This word, in its original signification, seems corrupted from nursle; but when its original meaning was forgotten, writers supposed it to come from nozzle or nose, and in that sense used it.]

 To nurse; to foster.
Old men long nuzzled in corruption, scorning them that would seek reformation. Sidney.
 To go with the nose down like a hog.
He charged through an army of lawyers, sometimes with sword in hand, at other times nuzzling like an eel in the mud. Arbuthnot's John Bull.
Sir Roger shook his ears, and nuzzled along, well satisfied that he was doing a charitable work. Arb. J. Bull.
The blessed benefit, not there confin'd,Drops to the third, who nuzzles close behind. Pope.

Nymph
Nymph. n.s. [νύμφη; nympha, Lat.]

 A goddess of the woods, meadows, or waters.
And as the moisture which the thirsty earthSucks from the sea, to fill her empty veins,From out her womb at last doth take a birth,And runs a nymph along the grassy plains. Davies.
 A lady. In poetry.
This resolve no mortal dame,None but those eyes cou'd have o'erthrown;The nymph I dare not, need not name. Waller.

Nys
Nys. [A corruption of ne is.] None is; not is. Obsolete.
Thou findest fault, where nys to be found,And buildest strong work upon a weak ground. Spenser.
