Oaf
Oaf. n.s. [This word is variously written; auff, ofe, and oph; it seems a corruption of ouph, a demon or fairy, in German alf, from which elf: and means properly the same with changeling; a foolish child left by malevolent ouphs or fairies, in the place of one more witty, which they steal away.]

 A changeling; a foolish child left by the fairies.


These, when a child haps to be got,Which after proves an idiot,When folk perceives it thriveth not,The fault therein to smother:


Some silly doating brainless calf,That understands things by the half,Says that the fairy left this oaf,

 


And took away the other. Drayt. Nymphid.



 A dolt; a blockhead; an idiot.

Oafish
Oáfish. adj. [from oaf.] Stupid; dull; doltish.

Oafishness
Oáfishness. n.s. [from oafish.] Stupidity; dullness.

Oak
Oak. n.s. [ac, æc, Saxon; which, says Skinner, to shew how easy it is to play the fool, under a shew of literature, and deep researches, I will, for the diversion of my reader, derive from οἶκος, a house; the oak being the best timber for building.  Skinner seems to have had Junius in his thoughts, who on this very word has shewn his usual fondness for Greek etymology, by a derivation more ridiculous than that by which Skinner has ridiculed him.  Ac or oak, says the grave critick, signified among the Saxons, like robur among the Latins, not only an oak but strength, and may be well enough derived, non incommode deduci potest, from ἀλκὴ, strength; by taking the first three letters and then sinking the λ, as is not uncommon.]
The oak-tree hath male flowers, or katkins, which consist of a great number of small slender threads.  The embryos, which produced at remote distances from these on the same tree, do afterwards become acorns, which are produced in hard scaly cups: the leaves are sinuated.  The species are five. Miller.
He return'd with his brows bound with oak. Shakesp.
                        He lay alongUnder an oak, whose antique root peeps outUpon the brook that brawls along this wood. Shakesp.
No tree beareth so many bastard fruits as the oak: for besides the acorns, it beareth galls, oak apples, oak nuts, which are inflammable, and oak berries, sticking close to the body of the tree without stalk. Bacon's Nat. History.
The monarch oak, the patriarch of the trees,Shoots rising up and spreads by slow degrees:Three centuries he grows, and three he staysSupreme in state; and in three more decays. Dry.
An oak growing from a plant to a great tree, and then lopped, is still the same oak. Locke.
A light earthy, stony, and sparry matter, incrusted and affixed to oak leaves. Woodward on Foss.
In the days of Homer every grove, river, fountain, and oak tree, were thought to have their peculiar deities. Odyss.
Let India boast her plants, nor envy weThe weeping amber and the balmy tree,While by our oaks the precious loads are born,And realms commanded which those trees adorn. Pope.

Oak (evergreen)
Oak. [Evergreen.]
The leaves are, for the most part, indented, or sinuated, and in some the edges of the leaves are prickly, and are evergreen: it hath amentaceous flowers, which are produced at remote distances from the fruit on the same tree: the fruit is an acorn like the common oak.  The wood of this tree is accounted very good for many sorts of tools and utensils; and affords the most durable charcoal in the world. Miller.

Oakapple
Oakápple. n.s. [oak and apple.] A kind of spongy excrescence on the oak.
Another kind of excrescence is an exudation of plants joined with putrefaction, as in oakapples, which are found chiefly upon the leaves of oaks. Bacon's Nat. Hist.

Oaken
Oáken. adj. [from oak.] Made of oak; gathered from oak.
No nation doth equal England for oaken timber wherewith to build ships. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
            By lot from Jove I am the pow'rOf this fair wood, and live in oaken bow'r. Milton.
Clad in white velvet all their troop they led,With each an oaken chaplet on his head. Dryden.
An oaken garland to be worn on festivals, was the recompense of one who had covered a citizen in battle. Addison.
He snatched a good tough oaken cudgel, and began to brandish it. Arbuthnot's J. Bull.

Oakenpin
Oakenpin. n.s. An apple.
Oakenpin, so called from its hardness, is a lasting fruit, yields excellent liquor, and is near the nature of the Westbury apple, though not in form. Mortimer.

Oakum
Oákum. n.s. [A word probably formed by some corruption.]  Cords untwisted and reduced to hemp, with which, mingled with pitch, leaks are stopped.
They make their oakum, wherewith they chalk the seams of the ships, of old seer and weather beaten ropes, when they are over spent and grown so rotten as they serve for no other use but to make rotten oakum, which moulders and washes away with every sea as the ships labour and are tossed. Ral.
Some drive old oakum thro' each seam and rift;Their left hand does the calking-iron guide;The rattling mallet with the right they lift. Dryden.

Oar (noun)
Oar. n.s. [are, Saxon; perhaps by allusion to the common expression of plowing the water, from the same root with ear, to plow, aro, Lat.]  A long pole with a broad end, by which vessels are driven in the water, the resistance made by water to the oar pushing on the vessel.
              Th' oars were silver,Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and madeThe water which they beat, to follow faster,As amorous of their strokes. Shakesp. Jul. Cæsar.
So tow'rds a ship the oar-finn'd gallies ply,Which wanting sea to ride, or wind to fly,Stand but to fall reveng'd. Denham's Poems.
In shipping such as this, the Irish kernAnd untaught Indian, on the stream did glide,E'er sharp-keel'd boats to stem the flood did learn,Or fin-like oars did spread from either side. Dryden.
Its progressive motion may be effected by the help of several oars, which in the outward ends of them shall be like the fins of a fish to contract and dilate. Wilkins.

Oar (verb active)
To Oar. v.a. To impel by rowing.
                      His bold head'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'dHimself with his good arms in lusty strokesTo th' shore. Shakespeare's Tempest.

Oar (verb neuter)
To Oar. v.n. [from the noun.] To row.
He more undaunted on the ruin rode,And oar'd with labouring arms along the flood. Pope.

Oary
Oáry. adj. [from oar.] Having the form or use of oars.
His hair transforms to down, his fingers meet,In skinny films, and shape his oary feet. Addison.
        The swan with arched neck,Between her white wings mantling, proudly rowsHer state with oary feet. Milton.

Oast
Oast. n.s. A kiln. Not in use.
Empty the binn into a hog-bag, and carry them immediately to the oast or kiln, to be dried. Mortimer.

Oatcake
Oatcáke. n.s. [oat and cake.] Cake made of the meal of oats.
Take a blue stone they make haver or oatcakes upon, and lay it upon the cross bars of iron. Peacham.

Oaten
Oáten. adj. [from oat.] Made of oats; bearing oats.
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws,And merry larks are ploughmens clocks. Shakesp.

Oats
Oats. n.s. [aten, Saxon.] A grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people.
It is of the grass leaved tribe; the flowers have no petals, and are disposed in a loose panicle: the grain is eatable.  The meal makes tolerable good bread. Miller.
The oats have eaten the horses. Shakespeare.
It is bare mechanism, no otherwise produced than the turning of a wild oatbeard, by the insinuation of the particles of moisture. Locke.
For your lean cattle, fodder them with barley straw first, and the oat straw last. Mortimer's Husbandry.
His horse's allowance of oats and beans, was greater than the journey required. Swift.

Obeisance


Obelisk
Óbelisk. n.s. [obeliscus, Latin.]

 A magnificent high piece of solid marble, or other fine stone, having usually four faces, and lessening upwards by degrees, till it ends in a point like a pyramid. Harris.
 Between the statues obelisks were plac'd, And the learn'd walls with hieroglyphicks grac'd. Pope.
 A mark of censure in the margin of a book, in the form of a dagger [†].
 He published the translation of the Septuagint, having compared it with the Hebrew, and noted by asterisks what was defective, and by obelisks what redundant. Grew.

Obequitation
Obequitátion. n.s. [from obequito, Latin.] The act of riding about.

Oberration
Oberrátion. n.s. [from oberro, Latin.] The act of wandering about.

Obese
Obése. adj. [obesus, Latin.] Fat; loaden with flesh.

Oblectation
Oblectátion. n.s. [oblectatio, Lat.] Delight; pleasure.

Obliteration
Obliterátion. n.s. [obliteratio, Latin.] Effacement; extinction.
 Considering the casualties of wars, transmigrations, especially that of the general flood, there might probably be an obliteration of all those monuments of antiquity that ages precedent at some time have yielded. Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Oblivious
Oblívious. adj. [obliviosus, Latin.] Causing forgetfulness.
 Raze out the written troubles of the brain, And with some sweet oblivious antidote Cleanse the stuff'd bosom. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
                 The British souls Exult to see the crouding ghosts descend Unnumber'd; well aveng'd, they quit the cares Of mortal life, and drink th' oblivious lake. Philips.
 Oh born to see what none can see awake! Behold the wonders of th' oblivious lake. Pope's Dunc.

Obmutescence
Obmutéscence. n.s. [from obmutesco, Latin.] Loss of speech.
 A vehement fear often produceth obmutescence. Bacon.

Observatory
Obsérvatory. n.s. [observatoire, French.] A place built for astronomical observations.
 Another was found near the observatory in Greenwich Park.  Woodward on Fossils.

Obstetrication
Obstetricátion. n.s. [from obstetricor, Lat.] The office of a midwife.

Obstetrick
Obstétrick. adj. [from obstetrix, Lat.] Midwifish; befitting a midwife; doing the midwife's office.
 There all the learn'd shall at the labour stand, And Douglas lend his soft obstetrick hand. Dunciad, b. iv.

Obstipation
Obstipátion. n.s. [from obstipo, Lat.] The act of stopping up any passage.

Obstreperous
Obstréperous. adj. [obstreperus, Lat.] Loud; clamorous; noisy; turbulent; vociferous.
These obstreperous scepticks are the bane of divinity, who are so full of the spirit of contradiction, that they raise daily new disputes. Howel's Vocal Forest.
These obstreperous villains shout, and know not for what they make a noise.. Dryden.
The players do not only connive at his obstreperous approbation, but repair at their own cost whatever damages he makes. Addison's Spectator, № 235.

Obstreperously
Obstréperously. adv. [from obstreperous.] Loudly; clamorously; noisily.

Obstreperousness
Obstréperousness. n.s. [from obstreperous.] Loudness; clamour; noise; turbulence.

Obstriction
Obstríction. n.s. [from obstrictus, Latin.] Obligation; bond.
            He hath full right t' exemptWhom so it pleases him by choice,From national obstriction. Milton's Agonistes.

Obstupefaction
Obstupefáction. n.s. [obstupefacio, Latin.] The act of inducing stupidity, or interruption of the mental powers.

Obstupefactive
Obstupefáctive. adj. [from obstupefacio, Lat.] Obstructing the mental powers; stupifying.
The force of it is obstupefactive, and no other. Abbot.

Occecation
Occecátion. n.s. [occæcatio, from occæco, Latin.] The act of blinding or making blind.
 Those places speak of obduration and occecation, so as if the blindness that is in the minds, and hardness that is in the hearts of wicked men, were from God. Sanderson.

Odontalgick
Odontálgick. adj. [ὀδὼν and ἄλγος.] Pertaining to the tooth-ach.

Oe
Oe. This combination of vowels does not properly belong to our language, nor is ever found but in words derived from the Greek, and not yet wholly conformed to our manner of writing: oe has in such words the sound of E.

Oglio
Óglio. n.s. [from olla, Spanish.] A dish made by mingling different kinds of meat; a medley; a hotchpotch.
 These general motives of the common good, I will not so much as once offer up to your lordship, though they have still the upper end; yet, like great oglio's, they rather make a shew than provoke appetite. Suckling.
 Where is there such an oglio or medley of various opinions in the world again, as those men entertain in their service, without any scruple as to the diversity of their sects and opinions? King Charles.
 He that keeps an open house, should consider that there are oglia's of guests, as well as of dishes, and that the liberty of a common table is as good as a tacit invitation to all sorts of intruders. L'Estrange.

Old


Oligarchy
Oligárchy. n.s. [ὀλιγαρχία.] A form of government which places the supreme power in a small number; aristocracy.
 The worst kind of oligarchy, is, when men are governed indeed by a few, and yet are not taught to know what those few be, to whom they should obey. Sidney, b. ii.
 We have no aristocracies but in contemplation, all oligarchies, wherein a few men domineer, do what they list. Burt.
 After the expedition into Sicily, the Athenians chose four hundred men for administration of affairs, who became a body of tyrants, and were called an oligarchy, or tyranny of the few; under which hateful denomination they were soon after deposed. Swift.

Olitory
Ólitory. n.s. [olitor, Latin.] Belonging to the kitchen gaden.
 Gather your olitory seeds. Evelyn's Kalendar.

Ombre
Ómbre. n.s. [hombre, Spanish.] A game of cards played by three.
He would willingly carry her to the play; but she had rather go to lady Centaure's and play at ombre. Tatler.

Omega
Ómega. n.s. [ὡμέγα.] The last letter of the alphabet, therefore taken in the Holy Scripture for the last.
I am alpha and omega, the beginning and the ending. Rev. i. 8.

Omelet
Ómelet. n.s. [omelette, Fr.] A kind of pancake made with eggs.

Omen
Ómen. n.s. [omen, Latin.] A sign good or bad; a prognostick.
When young kings begin with scorn of justice,They make an omen to their after reign. Dryden.
The speech had omen that the Trojan raceShould find repose, and this the time and place. Dryden.
Choose out other smiling hours,Such as have lucky omens shedO'er forming laws and empires rising. Prior.

Omened
Ómened. adj. [from omen.] Containing prognosticks.
                              Fame may prove,Or omen'd voice, the messenger of Jove,Propitious to the search. Pope's Odyssey, b. ii.

Omentum
Oméntum. n.s. [Latin.]
The cawl, called also reticulum, from its structure, resembling that of a net.  When the peritonæum is cut, as usual, and the cavity of the abdomen laid open, the omentum or cawl presents itself first to view.  This membrane, which is like a wide and empty bag, covers the greatest part of the guts. Quincy.

Omer
Ómer. n.s. A Hebrew measure about three pints and a half English. Bailey.

Ominate
To Óminate. v.a. [ominor, Lat.] To foretoken; to shew prognosticks.
This ominates sadly, as to our divisions with the Romanists. Decay of Piety.

Omination
Ominátion. n.s. [from ominor, Lat.] Prognostick.
The falling of salt is an authentick presagement of ill luck, yet the same was not a general prognostick of future evil among the ancients; but a particular omination concerning the breach of friendship. Brown's V. Err. b. v.

Ominous
Óminous. adj. [from omen.]

 Exhibiting bad tokens of futurity; foreshewing ill; inauspicious.
Let me be duke of Clarence;For Glo'ster's dukedom is ominous. Shakesp. Henry VI.
        Pomfret, thou bloody prison,Fatal and ominous to noble peers. Shakesp. Rich. III.
These accidents the more rarely they happen, the more ominous are they esteemed, because they are never observed but when sad events do ensue. Hayward.
Roving the Celtic and Iberian fields,He last betakes him to this ominous wood. Mil. Poems.
As in the heathen worship of God, a sacrifice without an heart was accounted ominous; so in the christian worship of him, an heart without a sacrifice is worthless. South's Serm.
              Pardon a father's tears,And give them to Charinus' memory;May they not prove as ominous to thee. Dryden.
 Exhibiting tokens good or ill.
Though he had a good ominous name to have made a peace, nothing followed. Bacon's Henry VII.

Ominously
Óminously. adv. [from ominous.] With good or bad omen.

Ominousness
Omínousness. n.s. [from ominous.] The quality of being ominous.

Omission
Omíssion. n.s. [omissus, Lat.]

 Neglect to do something; forbearance of something to be done.
Would it not impose a total omission of physie. Brown.
If he has made no provision for this great change, the omission can never be repaired, the time never redeemed. Roger's Serm. 12.
 Neglect of duty, opposed to commission or perpetration of crimes.
Omission to do what is necessary,Seals a commission to a blank of danger. Shakespeare.
The most natural division of all offences, is into those of omission and those of commission. Addison' Freeholder.

Omit
To Ómit. v.a. [omitto, Lat.]

 To leave out; not to mention.
These personal comparisons I omit, because I would say nothing that may favour of a spirit of flattery. Bacon.
Great Cato there, for gravity renown'd,Who can omit the Gracchi, who declareThe Scipio's worth? Dryden, Æn. vi.
 To neglect to practice.
Her father omitted nothing in her education, that might make her the most accomplished woman of her age. Addis.

Omittance
Omíttance. n.s. [from omit.] Forbearance.
He said, mine eyes were black, and my hair black;And now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me!I marvel why I answer'd not again;But that's all one, omittance is no quittance. Shakesp.

Omnifarious
Omnifárious. adj. [omnifariam, Lat.] Of all varieties or kinds.
These particles could never of themselves, by omnifarious kinds of motion, whether fortuitous or mechanical, have fallen into this visible system. Bentley's Serm.
But if thou omnifarious drinks wou'dst brew;Besides the orchard, ev'ry hedge and bushAffords assistance. Philips.

Omniferous
Omníferous. adj. [omnis and fero, Lat.] All-bearing. Dict.

Omnifick
Omnífick. adj. [omnis and facio, Lat.] All-creating.
Silence, ye troubled waves, and thou deep, peace!Said then th' omnific word, your discord end. Milton.

Omniform
Omníform. adj. [omnis and forma, Lat.] Having every shape. Dict.

Omnigenous
Omnígenous. adj. [omnigenus, Lat.] Consisting of all kinds. Dict.

Omnipotence
Omnípotence.Omnípotency.

n.s. [omnipotentia, Lat.] Almighty power; unlimited power.


                              Whatever fortuneCan give or take, love wants not, or despises;Or by his own omnipotence supplies. Denham.
As the soul bears the image of the divine wisdom, so this part of the body represents the omnipotency of God, whilst it is able to perform such wonderful effects. Wilkins.
The greatest danger is from the greatest power, and that is omnipotency. Tillotson, Serm. 1.
            Will omnipotence neglect to save,The suffering virtue of the wise and brave. Pope.

Omnipotency
Omnípotence.Omnípotency.

n.s. [omnipotentia, Lat.] Almighty power; unlimited power.


                              Whatever fortuneCan give or take, love wants not, or despises;Or by his own omnipotence supplies. Denham.
As the soul bears the image of the divine wisdom, so this part of the body represents the omnipotency of God, whilst it is able to perform such wonderful effects. Wilkins.
The greatest danger is from the greatest power, and that is omnipotency. Tillotson, Serm. 1.
            Will omnipotence neglect to save,The suffering virtue of the wise and brave. Pope.

Omnipotent
Omnípotent. adj. [omnipotens, Lat.] Almighty; powerful without limit.
You were also Jupiter, a swan, for the love of Leda: oh omnipotent love! how near the god drew to the complexion of a goose? Shakesp. Merry Wives of Wind.
The perfect being must needs be omnipotent; both as self-existent and as immense: for he that his self-existent, having the power of being, hath the power of allbeing; equal to the cause of all  being, which is to be omnipotent. Grew's Cosmol. b. i. c. 1.

Omnipresence
Omniprésence. n.s. [omnis and præsens, Lat.] Ubiquity; unbounded presence.
              He also wentInvisible, yet staid, such privilegeHath omnipresence. Milton's Par. Lost, b. vii.
Adam, thou know'st his omnipresence fillsLand, sea, and air. Milton's Par. Lost, b. ix.
The soul is evolved and present to every part: and if my soul can have its effectual energy upon my body with ease, with how much more facility can a being of immense existence and omnipresence, of infinite wisdom and power, govern a great but finite universe? Hale.

Omnipresent
Omniprésent. adj. [omnis and præsens, Latin.] Ubiquitary; present in every place.
Omniscient master, omnipresent king,To thee, to thee, my last distress I bring. Prior.

Omniscience
Omníscience.Omnísciency.

n.s. [omnis and scientia, Lat.] Boundless knowledge; infinite wisdom.


In all this misconstruction of my actions, as I have no judge but God above me, so I can have comfort to appeal to his omniscience. King Charles.
Thinking by this retirement to obscure himself from God, he infringed the omnisciency and essential ubiquity of his maker, who as he created all things, so is he beyond and in them all. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. i.
An immense being does strangely fill the soul; and omnipotency, omnisciency, and infinite goodness, enlarge the spirit while it fixtly looks upon them. Burnet.
Since thou boast'st th' omniscience of a God,Say in what cranny of Sebastian's soul,Unknown to me, so loath'd a crime is lodg'd? Dryden.

Omnisciency
Omníscience.Omnísciency.

n.s. [omnis and scientia, Lat.] Boundless knowledge; infinite wisdom.


In all this misconstruction of my actions, as I have no judge but God above me, so I can have comfort to appeal to his omniscience. King Charles.
Thinking by this retirement to obscure himself from God, he infringed the omnisciency and essential ubiquity of his maker, who as he created all things, so is he beyond and in them all. Brown's Vulgar Errours, b. i.
An immense being does strangely fill the soul; and omnipotency, omnisciency, and infinite goodness, enlarge the spirit while it fixtly looks upon them. Burnet.
Since thou boast'st th' omniscience of a God,Say in what cranny of Sebastian's soul,Unknown to me, so loath'd a crime is lodg'd? Dryden.

Omniscient
Omníscient. adj. [omnis and scio, Lat.] Infinitely wise; knowing without bounds; knowing every thing.
By no means trust to your own judgment alone; for no man is omniscient. Bacon's Adv. to Villiers.
                        What can 'scape the eyeOf God all-seeing, or deceive his heartOmniscient? Milton's Paradise Lost, b. x.
Whatsoever is known, is some way present; and that which is present, cannot but be known by him who is omniscient. South's Sermons.
Omniscient master, omniscient king,To thee, to thee, my last distress I bring. Prior.

Omniscious
Omníscious. adj. [omnis and scio, Lat.] All-knowing.
I dare not pronounce him omniscious, that being an attribute individually proper to the Godhead, and incommunicable to any created substance. Hakewill on Providence.

Omnivorous
Omnívorous. adj. [omnis and voro, Lat.] All-devouring. Dict.

Omoplate
Omóplate. n.s. [ὡμος and πλατὺς.] The shoulder blade. Dict.

Omphaloptick
Omphalóptick. n.s. [ὁμφαλὸς and οπτικὸς.] An optic glass that is convex on both sides, commonly called a convex lens. Dict.

One (adjective)
One. adj. [an, œne, Saxon; een, Dutch; ein, German; ἕν, Greek.]

 Less than two; single; denoted by an unite.
 The man he knew was one that willingly, For one good look would hazard all. Daniel.
 Pindarus the poet, and one of the wisest, acknowledged also one God the most high, to be the father and creator of all things. Raleigh.
 If one must be rejected, one succeed, Make him my Lord, within whose faithful breast Is fix'd my image, and who loves me best. Dryden.
 Love him by parts in all your num'rous race, And from those parts form one collected grace; Then when you have refin'd to that degree, Imagine all in one, and think that one is he. Dryden.
 Indefinitely; any.
                         We shall Present our services to a fine new prince, One of these days. Shakespeare.
 I took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour One thing or other. Shakespeare's Tempest.
 When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. Matt. xiii. 19.
 If any one prince made a felicity in this life, and lest fair fame after death, without the love of his subjects, there were some colour to despise it. Suckling.
 Different; diverse; opposed to another.
 What a precious comfort to have so many, like brothers, commanding one another's fortunes. Shakespeare.
 It is one thing to draw outlines true, the features like, the proportions exact, the colouring tolerable, and another thing to make all these graceful. Dryden.
 Suppose the common depth of the sea, taking one place with another, to be about a quarter of a mile. Burnet.
 It is one thing to think right, and another thing to know the right way to lay our thoughts before others with advantage and clearness. Locke.
 My legs were closed together by so many wrappers one over another, that I looked like an Egyptian mummy. Add.
 Two bones rubbed hard against one another, or with a file, to produce a fetid smell. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 At one time they keep their patients so warm, as almost to stifle them, and all of a sudden the cold regimen is in vogue. Baker on Learning.
 One of two opposed to the other.
 Ask from the one side of heaven unto the other, whether there hath been any such thing as this. Deutr. iv. 32
 Both the matter of the stone and marchasite, had been at once fluid bodies, till one of them, probably the marchasite, first growing hard, the other, as being yet of a more yielding consistence, accommodated itself to the harder's figure. Boyle.
 There can be no reason why we should prefer any one action to another, but because we have greater hopes of advantage from the one than from the other. Smallridge.
 Particularly one.
 One day when Phæbe fair, With all her band was following th' chase, This nymph quite tir'd with heat of scorching air, Sat down to rest. Fairy Queen, b. i.
 Some future.
 Heav'n waxeth old, and all the spheres above Shall one day faint, and their swift motion stay; And time itself, in time shall cease to move, But the soul survives and lives for aye. Davies.

Oneirocritical
Oneirocrítical. adj. [ὀνειροκριτιχος, Gr. onirocritique, Fr. it should therefore according to analogy be written onirocritical and onirocritick.] Interpretative of dreams.
 If a man has no mind to pass by abruptly from his imagined to his real circumstances, he may employ himself in that new kind of observation which my oneirocritical correspondent has directed him to make. Addison's Spectator.

Oneirocritick
Oneirocrítick. n.s. [ὀνεροχριτικὸι, Gr.] An interpreter of dreams.
 Having surveyed all ranks and professions, I do not find in any quarter of the town an oneirocritick, or an interpreter of dreams. Addison's Spectator, №. 505.

Onerary
Ónerary. adj. [onerarius, Lat. oneraise, Fr.] Fitted for carriage or burthens.

Onion
Onion. n.s. [oignon, French.]
It hath an orbicular, coated, bulbous root; the leaves are hollow or pip; the stalk also hollow and swells out in the middle; the flowers consisting of six leaves are collected into a spherical head; the style of the flower becomes a roundish fruit divided into three cells, containing roundish seeds. Mill.
 If the boy have not a woman's gift To rain a shower of commanded tears, An onion will do well. Sha. Taming of the Shrew.
 I an ass, am onion-ey'd. Sha. Ant. and Cleopatra.
 This is ev'ry cook's opinion, No sav'ry dish without an onion: But lest your kissing should be spoil'd, Your onions must be throughly boil'd. Swift.

Onomancy
Ónomancy. n.s. [ὄνομα and μαντεία.] Divination by a name.
 Destinies were superstitiously, by onomancy, deciphered out of names, as though the names and natures of men were suitable, and fatal necessities concurred herein with voluntary motion. Camden.

Onycha
Ónycha. n.s. It is found in two different senses in scripture. — The odoriferous snail or shell, and the stone named onyx. The greatest part of commentators explain it by the onyx or odoriferous shell, like that of the shell-fish called purpura. The onyx is fished for in watry places of the Indies, where grows the spicanardi, which is the food of this fish, and what makes its shell so aromatick. Calmet.
 Take sweet spices, onycha, and galbanum. Ex. xxx. 34.

Opera
Ópera. n.s. [Italian.]
An opera is a poetical tale or fiction, represented by vocal and instrumental musick, adorned with scenes, machines, and dancing. Dryden's Pref. to Albion.

Opiate (noun)
Ópiate. n.s. A medicine that causes sleep.
 They chose atheism as an opiate, to still those frightning apprehensions of hell, by inducing a dulness and lethargy of mind, rather than to make use of that native and salutary medicine, a hearty repentance. Bentley's Serm.

Opprobrious
Oppróbrious. adj. [from opprobrium, Lat.] Reproachful; disgraceful; causing infamy; scurrilous.
 Himself pronounceth them blessed, that should for his name sake be subject to all kinds of ignominy and opprobrious malediction. Hooker, b. v. s. 48.
                 I will not here defile My unstain'd verse with his opprobrions name. Daniel.
 Solomon he led by fraud to build His temple right against the temple of God, On the opprobrious hill. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. i.
 They see themselves unjustly aspersed, and and vindicate themselves in terms no less opprobrious than those by which they are attacked. Addison's Freeholder, № 137.

Opsimathy
Opsímathy. n.s. [ὀψιμάθία.] Late education; late erudition.

Optative
Óptative. adj. [optativus, Lat.] Expressive of desire. [In grammar.]
The verb undergoes in Greek a different formation to signify wishing, which is called the optative mood. Clarke.

Orange
Órange. n.s. [orange, Fr. aurentia, Latin.] The leaves have two lobes or appendages at their base like ears, and cut in form of a heart; the fruit is round and depressed, and of a yellow colour when ripe, in which it differs from the citron and lemon.  The species are eight. Miller.
 I will discharge it in your straw-colour'd beard, your orange tawny beard. Shakesp. Mids. Night's Dream.
 The notary came aboard, holding in his hand a fruit like an orange, but of colour between orange tawny and scarlet, which cast a most excellent odour, and is used for a preservative against infection. Bacon's New Atlantis.
         Fine oranges, sauce for your veal, Are charming when squeez'd in a pot of brown ale. Swift.
 The ideas of orange colour and azure, produced in the mind by the same infusion of lignum nephriticum, are no less distinct ideas than those of the same colours taken from two different bodies. Locke.

Orbity
Orbity. n.s. [orbus, Latin.] Loss, or want of parents or children.

Orc
Orc. n.s. [orca, Lat. ὄρυγα.] A sort of sea-fish. Ains.
                 An island salt and bare, The haunt of seals and orcs, and sea-maws clang. Milt.

Orchal
Órchal. n.s. A stone from which a blue colour is made. Ains.

Orchanet
Órchanet. n.s. An herb. Ains.

Orchard
Órchard. n.s. [either hortyard or wortyard, says Skinner; ortʒeard, Saxon. Junius.] A garden of fruit-trees.
 Planting of orchards is very profitable, as well as pleasurable. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
 They overcome their riches, not by making Baths, orchards, fish pools. Ben. Johnson.
 Her private orchards wall'd on ev'ry side, To lawless Sylvans all access deny'd. Pope.

Orchestre
Órchestre. n.s. [French. ὀρχήστρα.] The place where the musicians are set at a publick show.

Orrery
Órrery. n.s. An instrument which by many complicated movements represents the revolutions of the heavenly bodies.  It was first made by Mr. Rowley, a mathematician born at Litchfield, and so named from his patron the earl of Orrery: by one or other of this family almost every art has been encouraged or improved.

Oscitancy
Oscítancy. n.s. [oscitantia, Lat.]

 The act of yawning.

 Unusual sleepiness; carelessness.
If persons of so circumspect a piety, have been thus overtaken, what security can there be for our wreckless oscitancy? Government of the Tongue.
It might proceed from the obscitancy of transcribers, who, to dispatch their work the sooner, used to write all numbers in cyphers. Addison's Spectator, № 470.

Oscitant
Oscítant. adj. [oscitans, Latin.]

 Yawning; unusually sleepy.

 Sleepy; sluggish.
Our oscitant lazy piety gave vacancy for them, and they will now lend none back again for more active duty. Decay of Piety.

Oscitation
Oscitátion. n.s. [oscito, Lat.] The act of yawning.
I shall defer considering this subject till I come to my treatise of oscitation, laughter, and ridicule. Tatler, № 63.

Ostrich
Óstrich. n.s. [autruche, Fr. struthio, Lat.] Ostrich is ranged among birds.  It is very large, its wings very short, and the neck about four or five spans.  The feathers of its wings are in great esteem, and are used as an ornament for hats, beds, canopies: they are stained of several colours, and made into pretty tufts.  They are hunted by way of course, for they never fly; but use their wings to assist them in running more swiftly.  The ostrich swallows bits of iron or brass, in the same manner as other birds will swallow small stones or gravel, to assist in digesting or comminuting their food.  It lays its eggs upon the ground, hides them under the sand, and the sun hatches them. Calmet.
I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich, and swallow my sword like a great pin, ere thou and I part. Shakesp.
Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacock? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich. Job xxxix. 13.
The Scots errant fight, and fight to eat,Their ostrich stomachs make their swords their meat. Cleav.
Modern ostriches are dwindled to meer larks, in comparison with those of the ancients. Arbuthnot.

Other
Óther. pron. [oðer, Sax. autre, Fr.]

 Not the same; not this; different.
 Of good actions some are better than other some. Hooker.
 Will it not be receivedThat they have don't, Who dares receive it other? Shakesp. K. Lear.
He that will not give just occasion to think, that all government in the world is the product only of force and violence, and that men live together by no other rules but that of beasts, where the strongest carries; and so lay a foundation for perpetual disorder and mischief, tumult, sedition and rebellion; things that the followers of that hypothesis so loudly cry out against, must of necessity find out another state of government. Locke.
 No leases shall ever be made other than leases for years not exceeding thirty-one, in possession, and not in reversion or remainder. Swift.
 Not I, or he, but some one else.
                       Were I king, I should cut off the nobles for their lands; Desire his jewels and this other's house. Shakesp.
Physicians are some of them so conformable to the humour of the patient, as they press not the true cure of the disease; and some other are so regular in proceeding according to art, as they respect not the condition of the patient. Bacon, Essay 31.
 The dismayed matrons and maidens, some in their houses, other some in the churches with floods of tears and lamentable cries, poured forth their prayers to the Almighty, craving his help in that their hard distress. Knolles.
 The king had all he crav'd, or could compel, And all was done — let others judge how well. Daniel.
 Not the one, not this, but the contrary.
 There is that controling worth in goodness, that the will cannot but like and desire it; and on the other side, that odious deformity in vice, that it never offers itself to the affections of mankind, but under the disguise of the other. South.
 Correlative to each.
 In lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. Phil. ii. 3.
 Scotland and thou did each in other live, Nor would'st thou her, nor could she thee survive. Dryd.
 Something besides.
 The learning of Latin being nothing but the learning of words, join as much other real knowledge with it as you can. Locke on Education, s. 169.
 The next.
                 Thy air, Thou other gold bound brow, is like the first; A third is like the former. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 The third past.
 Bind my hair up: as 'twas
 yesterday: No, nor the t' other day. Ben. Johnson.
 It is sometimes put elliptically for other thing; something different.
 I can expect no other from those that judge by single sights and rash measures, than to be thought fond or insolent. Glanv.

Ought (noun)
Ought. n.s. [awhit, that is, a whit, Saxon. This word is therefore more properly written aught. See Aught.] Any thing; not nothing.
 For ought that I can understand, there is no part but the bare English pale, in which the Irish have not the greatest footing. Spenser on Ireland.
 He asked him if he saw ought. Mark viii. 23.
 To do ought good never will be our task; But ever to do ill our sole delight. Milton's Par. Lost.
 Universal Lord! be bounteous still To give us only good; and if the night Have gather'd ought of evil, or conceal'd, Disperse it, as now light dispels the dark. Milton.

Ought (verb)
Ought. verb imperfect. [This word the etymologists make the preterite of owe, but it has often a present signification.]

 [Preterite of owe.] Owed; was bound to pay; have been indebted.
 Apprehending the occasion, I will add a continuance to that happy motion, and besides give you some tribute of the love and duty I long have ought you. Spelman.
 This blood which men by treason sought, That followed, sir, which to myself I ought. Dryden.
 To be obliged by duty.
 Judges ought to remember, that their office is to interpret law, and not to make or give law. Bacon.
 Morals criticks ought to show. Pope.
 She acts just as she ought, But never, never reach'd one generous thought. Pope.
 To be fit; to be necessary.
 If grammar ought to be taught, it must be to one that can speak the language already. Locke.

Owe
To Owe. v.a. [eg aa, I owe, or I ought, Islandick.]

 To be obliged to pay; to be indebted.
 I owe you much, and, like a witless youth, That which I owe is lost. Shakesp. Merch. of Ven.
 Let none seek needless causes to approve The faith they owe. Milt. Par. Lost, b. ix.
 All your parts of pious duty done, You owe your Ormond nothing but a son. Dryden.
 Thou hast deserv'd more love than I can show, But 'tis thy fate to give, and mine to owe. Dryden.
 If, upon the general balance of trade, English merchants owe to foreigners one hundred thousand pounds, if commodities do not, our money must go out to pay it. Locke.
 To be obliged to ascribe; to be obliged for.
 By me upheld, that he may know how frail His fall'n condition is, and to me owe All his deliv'rance, and to none but me. Milton.
 To have from any thing as the consequence of a cause.
 O deem thy fall not ow'd to man's decree, Jove hated Greece, and punish'd Greece in thee. Pope.
 To possess; to be the right owner of. For owe, which is, in this sense, obsolete, we now use own.
                 Thou dost here usurp The name thou ow'st not, and hast put thyself Upon this island as a spy. Shakesp. Tempest.
 Fate, shew thy force; ourselves we do not owe; What is decreed must be; and be this so. Shakesp.
 Not poppy nor mandragora, Nor all the drowsy sirups of the world, Shall ever med'cine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owed'st yesterday. Shakesp. Othello.
                 If any happy eye This roving wanton shall descry, Let the finder surely know Mine is the wag; 'tis I that owe The winged wand'rer. Crashaw.
 A practice has long prevailed among writers, to use owing, the active participle of owe, in a passive sense, for owed or due.  Of this impropriety Bolinbroke was aware, and, having no quick sense of the force of English words, has used due, in the sense of consequence or imputation, which by other writers is only used of debt.  We say, the money is due to me; Bolinbroke says, the effect is due to the cause.

 Consequential.
 This was owing to an indifference to the pleasures of life, and an aversion to the pomps of it. Atterbury.
 Due as a debt.
                 You are both too bold; I'll teach you all what's owing to your queen. Dryden.
 The debt, owing from one country to the other, cannot be paid without real effects sent thither to that value. Locke.
 Imputable to, as an agent.
 If we estimate things, what in them is owing to nature, and what to labour, we shall find in most of them 99⁄100 to be on the account of labour. Locke.
 The custom of particular impeachments was not limited any more than that of struggles between nobles and commons, the ruin of Greece was owing to the former, as that of Rome was to the latter. Swift.

Own (noun)
Own. n.s. [aʒen, Saxon; eygen, Dutch.]

 This is a word of no other use than as it is added to the possessive pronouns, my, thy, his, our, your, their. It seems to be a substantive; as, my own, my peculiar: but is, in reality, the participle passive of the verb owe, in the participle owen or own: my own; the thing owned by, or belonging to me.
             Inachus in his cave alone, Wept not another's losses, but his own. Dryden.
 It is added generally by way of emphasis or corroboration.
             I yet never was forsworn, Scarcely have coveted what was my own. Shakesp.
 Every nation made gods of their own, and put them in high places. 2 Kings xvii. 29.
 For my own share one beauty I design, Engage your honours that she shall be mine. Dryden.
 It is conceit rather than understanding, if it must be under the restraint of receiving and holding opinions by the authority of any thing but their own perceived evidence. Locke.
 Will she thy linen wash, or hosen darn, And knit thee gloves made of her own spun yarn. Gay.
 Passion and pride were to her soul unknown, Convinc'd that virtue only is our own. Pope.
 Sometimes it is added to note opposition or contradistinction; domestick; not foreign; mine, his, or yours; not another's.
 These toils abroad, these tumults with his own, Fell in the revolution of one year. Daniel.
 There's nothing sillier than a crafty knave out-witted, and beaten at his own play. L'Estrange.

Own (verb)
To Own. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To acknowledge; to avow for one's own.
 When you come, find me out, And own me for your son. Dryden's Cleomenes.
 To possess; to claim; to hold by right.
 Tell me, ye Trojans, for that name you own; Nor is your course upon our coasts unknown. Dryden.
 Others on earth o'er human race preside, Of these the chief, the care of nations own, And guard with arms divine the British throne. Pope.
 To avow.
                 I'll venture out alone, Since you, fair princess, my protection own. Dryden.
 To confess; not to deny.
 Make this truth so evident, that those who are unwilling to own it may yet be ashamed to deny it. Tillotson.
 Others will own their weakness of understanding. Locke.

Oxymoron
Oxymóron. n.s. [οξύμωρον.] A rhetorical figure, in which an epithet of a quite contrary signification is added to any word. Dict.

Oxyrrhodine
Oxýrrhodine. n.s. [οξυῤῥοδινον, ὸξὺς and  ῥόδον.] A mixture of two parts of oil of roses with one of vinegar of roses.
The spirits, opiates, and cool things, readily compose oxyrrhodines. Floyer on the Humours.

Oyer
Óyer. n.s. [oyer, old French, to hear.] A court of oyer and terminer, is a judicature where causes are heard and determined.

Oyes
Oyés. n.s. [oyez, hear ye, French.] Is the introduction to any proclamation or advertisement given by the publick criers both in England and Scotland.  It is thrice repeated.
Fairies, black, grey, green, and white,Attend your office and your quality.Crier hobgoblin make the fairy O yes. Shakesp.
O yes! if any happy eyeThis roving wanton shall decry;Let the finder surely knowMine is the wag. Crashaw.

Oylethole
Oýlethole. n.s. See Oylet. [It may be written oylet, from oeillet, French; but eyelet seems better.]
Distinguish'd flashes deck the great,As each excels in birth or state;His oyletholes are more and ampler,The king's own body was a sampler. Prior.

Oyster
Óyster. n.s. [oester, Dutch; huitre, Fr.] A bivalve testaceous fish.
I will not lend thee a penny —— Why then the world's mine oyster whichI with sword will open. Shakesp. Merr. W. of Wind.
Rich honesty dwells like your miser, sir, in a poor house; as your pearl in you foul oyster. Shakesp.
Another mass held a kind of oyster shell, and other bivalves. Woodward on Fossils.
There may be as many ranks of beings in the invisible world superior to us, as we are superior to all the ranks of being in this visible world; though we descend below the oyster to the least animated atoms discovered by microscopes. Watt's Improv. of the Mind.
         Where oyster tubs in rowsAre rang'd beside the posts, there stay thy haste. Gay.

Oysterwench
Óysterwench.Óysterwoman.

n.s. [oyster and wench, or woman.] A woman whose business is to sell oysters. Proverbially. A low woman.


Off goes his bonnet to an  oysterwench. Shakesp.
The oysterwomen lock'd their fish up,And trudg'd away to cry no bishop. Hudibras.

Oysterwoman
Óysterwench.Óysterwoman.

n.s. [oyster and wench, or woman.] A woman whose business is to sell oysters. Proverbially. A low woman.


Off goes his bonnet to an  oysterwench. Shakesp.
The oysterwomen lock'd their fish up,And trudg'd away to cry no bishop. Hudibras.

Ozaena
Ozǽna. n.s. [ὄζαινα, from ὄζω; ozene, Fr.] An ulcer in the inside of the nostrils that gives an ill stench. Quincy.
