Pabular
Pábular. adj. [pabulum, Lat.] Affording aliment or provender.

Pabulation
Pabulátion. n.s. [pabulum, Lat.] The act of feeding or procuring provender.

Pabulous
Pábulous. adj. [pabulum, Lat.] Alimental; affording aliment.
We doubt the air is the pabulous supply of fire, much less that flame is properly air kindled. Brown's Vulgar Err.

Pace (noun)
Pace. n.s. [pas, French.]

 Step; single movement in walking.
                 Behind her death, Close following pace for pace, not mounted yet On his pale horse. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. x.
 Gait; manner of walk.
 He himself went but a kind of languishing pace, with his eyes sometimes cast up to heaven, as though his fancies strove to mount higher. Sidney.
 He saw Menalcas come with heavy pace; Wet were his eyes, and chearless was his face. Addison.
 Degree of celerity. To keep pace, is not to be left behind.
 To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, Creeps in this petty pace from day to-day, To the last syllable of recorded time; And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusky death. Shakesp. Macbeth.
                 Bring me word How the world goes, that to the pace of it I may spur on my journey. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
 His teachers were fain to restrain his forwardness; that his brothers, under the same training, might hold pace with him. Wotton's Buckingham.
 The beggar sings ev'n when he sees the place, Beset with thieves, and never mends his pace. Dryden.
             Just as much He mended pace upon the touch. Hudibras, p. i.
 Marcia could answer thee in sighs, keep pace With all thy woes, and count out tear for tear. Addison.
 Hudibras applied his spur to one side of his horse, as not doubting but the other would keep pace with it. Addison.
 Step; gradation of business. A gallicism.
 The first pace necessary for his majesty to make, is to fall into confidence with Spain. Temple.
 A measure of five feet. The quantity supposed to be measured by the foot from the place where it is taken up to that where it is set down.
 Measuring land by walking over it, they styled a double step; i. e. the space from the elevation of one foot, to the same foot set down again, mediated by a step of the other foot; a pace equal to five foot; a thousand of which paces made a mile. Holder on Time.
 The violence of tempests never moves the sea above six paces deep. Wilkin's Math. Magic.
 A particular movement which horses are taught, though some have it naturally, made by lifting the legs on the same side together.
 They rode, but authors having not Determin'd whether pace or trot; That's to say, whether tollutation, As they do term it, or succussation. Hudibras.

Pace (verb neuter)
To Pace. v.n. [from the noun.]

 To move on slowly.
 He soft arrived on the grassie plain, And fairly paced forth with easy pain. Hubberd.
                 As we pac'd along Upon the giddy footing of the hatches, Methought, that Gloster stumbl'd. Shakesp. R. III.
                             I beheld Crispinus, both in birth and manners vile, Pacing in pomp with cloak of Tyrian dye, Chang'd oft a day. Dryden's Juvenal.
 The moon rose in the clearest sky I ever saw, by whose solemn light I paced on slowly without interruption. Pope.
 The nymph, obedient to divine command, To seek Ulysses, pac'd along the sand. Pope.
 To move.
 Remember well, with speed so pace, To speak of Perdita. Shakesp. Winter's Tale.
 [Used of horses.] To move by raising the legs on the same side together.

Paean
Pǽan. n.s. [from the songs sung at festivals to Apollo, begining Io pæan.] A song of triumph.
O may I live to hail the glorious day,And sing loud pæans thro' the crouded way. Roscomm.
See from each clime the learn'd their incense bring:Hear, in all tongues consenting pæans ring. Pope.

Paint (noun)
Paint. n.s. [from the verb.]

 Colours representative of any thing.
                        Poets are limnersTo copy out ideas in the mind,Words are the paint by which their thoughts are shown,And nature is their object to be drawn. Granville.
The church of the annunciation looks beautiful in the inside, all but one corner of it being covered with statues, gilding, and paint. Addison on Italy.
            Her charms in breathing paint engage,Her modest cheek shall warm a future age. Pope.
 Colours laid on the face.
Together lay her pray'r book and her paint. Anon.

Paint (verb active)
To Paint. v.a. [peindre, French.]

 To represent by delineation and colours.
Live to be the shew and gaze o' th' time,We'll have thee as our rarer monsters are,Painted upon a pole. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 To cover with colours representative of something.
Who fears a sentence or an old man's saw,Shall by a painted cloth be kept in awe. Shakesp.
 To represent by colours, appearances, or images.
Till we from an author's words paint his very thoughts in our minds, we do not understand him. Locke.
 To describe; to represent.
The lady is disloyal. —— Disloyal? —— The word is too good to paint out her wickedness. Sha.
 To colour; to diversify.
Such is his will that paintsThe earth with colours fresh,The darkest skies with storeOf starry lights. Spenser.
 To deck with artificial colours.
Hath not old custom made this life more sweetThan that of painted pomp? are not these woodsMore free from peril than the court? Shakesp.
Jezebeel painted her face and tired her head. 2 Kings ix. 30.

Paint (verb neuter)
To Paint. v.n. To lay colours on the face.
Such a sin to paint. Pope.

Painter
Paínter. n.s. [peintre, Fr. from paint.] One who professes the art of representing objects by colours.
In the placing let some care be taken how the painter did stand in the working. Wotton's Architecture.
Beauty is only that which makes all things as they are in their proper and perfect nature; which the best painters always chuse by contemplating the forms of each. Dryden.

Painting
Paínting. n.s. [from paint.]

 The art of representing objects by delineation and colours.
If painting be acknowledged for an art, it follows that no arts are without their precepts. Dryden.
              'Tis in life as 'tis in painting,Much may be right, yet much be wanting. Prior.
 Picture; the painted resemblance.
This is the very painting of your fear;This is the air-drawn dagger which you said,Led you to Duncan. Shakesp. Macbeth.
Painting is welcome;The painting is almost the natural man:For since dishonour trafficks with man's nature,He is but outside: pencil'd figures areEv'n such as they give out. Shakesp. Timon of Athens.
 Colours laid on.
              If any such be hereThat love this painting, wherein you see me smear'd,Let him express his disposition. Shakesp. Coriolanus.

Palm (noun)
Palm. n.s. [palma, Latin; palmier, Fr.]

 A tree of great variety of species; of which the branches were worn in token of victory.
The palm-tree hath a single imbranched stalk; the leaves are disposed in a circular form on the top, which, when they wither or fall off, are succeeded by new ones out of the middle of those which remain; among which sheaths or plain twigs break forth, opening from the bottom to the top, very full of flowers and clusters of embryos.  There are twenty-one species of this tree, of which the most remarkable are, the greater palm or date-tree. The dwarf palm grows in Spain, Portugal, and Italy, from whence the leaves are sent hither and made into flag-brooms.  The oily palm is a native of Guinea and Cape Verd island, but has been transplanted to Jamaica and Barbadoes.  It grows as high as the main mast of a ship. Miller.
Get the start of the majestick world,And bear the palm alone. Shakesp. Jul. Cæsar.
Go forth into the mount and fetch palm-branches. Neh. viii. 15.
Nothing better proveth the excellency of this soil, than the abundant growing of the palm-trees without labour of man.  This tree alone giveth unto man whatsoever his life beggeth at nature's hand. Raleigh.
Above others who carry away the palm for excellence, is Maurice Landgrave of Hess. Peacham of Musick.
Fruits of palm-tree, pleasantest to thirstAnd hunger both. Milton's Par. Lost.
Thou youngest virgin, daughter of the skies,Whose palms new pluck'd from Paradise,With spreading branches more sublimely rise. Dryden.
 Victory; triumph. [palme, Fr.]
Namur subdu'd is England's palm alone;The rest besieg'd; but we constrain'd the town. Dryden.
 The hand spread out; the inner part of the hand. [palma, Lat.]
By this virgin palm now kissing thine,I will be thine. Shakespeare.
Drinks of extreme thin parts fretting, put upon the back of your hand, will, with a little stay, pass through to the palm, and yet taste mild to the mouth. Bacon.
Seeking my success in love to know,I try'd th' infallible prophetick way,A poppy-leaf upon my palm to lay. Dryden.
 A hand, or measure of length, comprising three inches. [palme, Fr.]
The length of a foot is a sixth part of the stature; a span one eighth of it; a palm or hand's breadth one twenty-fourth; a thumb's breadth or inch one seventy-second; a forefinger's breadth one ninety-sixth. Holder on Time.
Henry VIII. of England, Francis I. of France, and Charles V. emperor, were so provident, as scarce a palm of ground could be gotten by either, but that the other two would set the balance of Europe upright again. Bacon.
The same hand into a fist may close,Which instantly a palm extended shows. Denham.

Palpable


Pander (noun)
Pánder. n.s. [This word is derived from Pandarus, the pimp in the story of Troilus and Cressida; it was therefore originally written pandar, till its etymology was forgotten.] A pimp; a male bawd; a procurer.
Let him with his cap in hand,Like a base pander, hold the chamber doorWhilst by a slaveHis fairest daughter is contaminated. Shakesp. Hen. V.
If thou fear to strike, and to make me certain it is done, thou art the pander to her dishonour, and equally to me disloyal. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
If ever you prove false to one another, since I have taken such pains to bring you together, let all pitiful goers-between be call'd panders after my name. Shakesp. Troil. and Cressida.
Camillo was his help in this, his pander,There is a plot against my life. Shakesp. Wint. Tale.
The sons of happy Punks, the pander's heir,Are privilegedTo clap the first, and rule the theatre. Dryden.
Thou hast confess'd thyself the conscious pandarOf that pretended passion;A single witness infamously known,Against two persons of unquestion'd fame. Dryden.
My obedient honesty was madeThe pander to thy lust and black ambition. Rowe.

Pander (verb)
To Pánder. v.a. [from the noun.] To pimp; to be subservient to lust or passion.
                Proclaim no shame,When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,Since first itself as actively doth burn,And reason panders will. Shakesp. Hamlet.

Papilionaceous
Papiliona'ceous. adj. [from papilio, Latin.]
The flowers of some plants are called papilionaceous by botanists, which represent something of the figure of a butterfly, with its wings displayed: and here the petala, or flower leaves, are always of a diform figure: they are four in number, but joined together at the extremities; one of these is usually larger than the rest and is erected in the middle of the flower, and by some called vexillum: the plants, that have his flower, are of leguminous kind; as pease, vetches, &c. Quincy.

Papillary


Papillous


Papist


Papistical


Papistry


Pappous


Pappy


Par


Parable (adjective)


Parable (noun)


Parabola
Pa'rabola. n.s. [Latin.]
The parabola is a conick section, arising from a cone's being cut by a plane parallel to one of its sides, or parallel to a plane that touches one side of the cone. Harris.
Had the velocities of the several planets been greater or less than they are now, at the same distances from the sun, they would not have revolved in concentrick circles as they do, but have moved in hyperbola's or parabola's, or in ellipses, very excentrick. Bentley's Sermons.

Parabolical


Parabolically


Parabolick


Parabolism


Paraboloid


Paracentesis


Paracentrical


Paracentrick


Parade
Para'de. n.s. [parade, Fr.]

 Shew; ostentation.
 He is not led forth as to a review, but as to a battle; nor adorned for parade, but execution. Granville.
 The rites perform'd, the parson paid, In state returned the grand parade. Swift.
 Be rich; but of your wealth make no parade, At least, before your master's debts are paid. Swift.
 Military order.
                     The cherubim stood arm'd To their night-watches in warlike parade. Milton.
 Place where troops draw up to do duty and mount guard.

 Guard; posture of defence.
 Accustom him to make judgment of men by their inside, which often shews itself in little things, when they are not in parade, and upon their guard. Locke on Education.

Paradigm


Paradise


Paradisiacal
Paradisi'acal. adj. [from paradise.] Suiting paradise; making paradise.
 The antients express the situation of paradisiacal earth in reference to the sea. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
 Such a mediocrity of heat would be so far from exalting the earth to a more happy and paradisiacal state, that it would turn it to a barren wilderness. Woodw. Nat. Hist.
 The summer is a kind of heaven, when we wander in a paradisiacal scene, among groves and gardens; but, at this season, we are like our poor first parents, turned out of that agreeable, though solitary life, and forced to look about for more people to help to bear our labours, to get into warmer houses, and hive together in cities. Pope.

Paradox
Pa'radox. n.s. [paradoxe, Fr. παράδοξος.] A tenet contrary to received opinion; an assertion contrary to appearance; a position in appearance absurd.
A glosse there is to colour that paradox, and make it appear in shew not to be altogether reasonable. Hooker.
 You undergo too strict a paradox, Striving to make an ugly deed look fair. Shakesp.
In their love of God, men can never be too affectionate: it is as true, though it may seem a paradox, that in their hatred of sin, men may be sometimes too passionate.  Sprat.

Paradoxical


Paradoxically


Paraphernalia
Parapherna'lia. n.s. [Lat. paraphernaux, Fr.] Goods in the wife's disposal.

Passive
Pa'ssive. adj. [passif, French; passivus, Latin.]

 Receiving impression from some external agent.
                 High above the ground Their march was, and the passive air upbore Their nimble tread. Milton's Paradise Lost.
 The active informations of the intellect, filling the passive reception of the will, like form closing with matter, grew actuate into a third and distinct perfection of practice. South.
 As the mind is wholly passive in the reception of all its simple ideas, so it exerts several acts of its own, whereby, out of its simple ideas, the other is formed. Locke.
 The vis inertiæ is a passive principle by which bodies persist in their motion or rest, receive motion in proportion to the force impressing it, and resist as much as they are resisted: by this principle alone, there never could have been any motion in the world. Newton's Optics.
 Unresisting; not opposing.
 Not those alone, who passive own her laws, But who, weak rebels, more advance her cause. Dunciad.
 Suffering; not acting.

 [In grammar.]
A verb passive is that which signififes passion or the effect of action: as doceor, I am taught. Clarke's Lat. Gram.

Pastern
Pa'stern. n.s. [pasturon, French.]

 The knee of an horse.
I will not change my horse with any that treads on four pasterns. Shakespear's Henry V.
The colt that for a stallion is design'd,Upright he walks on pasterns firm and straight,His motions easy, prancing in his gait. Dryden.
Being heavy, he should not tread stiff, but have a pastern made him, to break the force of his weight; by this his body hangs on the hoof, as a coach doth by the leathers. Grew.
 The legs of an human creature in contempt.
So straight she walk'd, and on her pasterns high:If seeing her behind, he lik'd her pace,Now turning short, he better lik'd her face. Dryden.

Pastil
Pa'stil. n.s. [pastillus, Lat. pastille, Fr.] A roll of paste.
To draw with dry colours, make long pastils, by grinding red led with strong wort, and so roll them up like pencils, drying them in the sun. Peacham on Drawing.

Patefaction
Pate'faction. n.s. [patefactio, Latin.] Act or state of opening. Ainsworth.

Paten
Pa'ten. n.s. [patina, Latin.] A plate. Not in use.
                         The floor of heav'n Is thick inlaid with patens of bright gold; There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st, But in his motion like an angel sings. Shakesp.

Patent (adjective)
Pa'tent. adj. [patens, Latin; patent, French.]

 Open to the perusal of all: as, letters patent.

 Something appropriated by letters patent.
 Madder is esteemed a commodity that will turn to good profit; so that, in king Charles the first's time, it was made a patent commodity. Mortimer's Husbandry.

Pathognomonick
Pa'thognomonick. adj. [παθογνωμονικὸς, πάθος and γινώσκω.] Such signs of a disease as are inseparable, designing the essence or real nature of the disease; not symptomatick. Quincy.
 He has the true pathognomonick sign of love, jealousy; for no body will suffer his mistress to be treated so. Arbuthnot.

Patron
Pa'tron. n.s. [patron, Fr. patronus, Latin.]

 One who countenances, supports or protects. Commonly a wretch who supports with insolence, and is paid with flattery.
I'll plead for you, as for my patron. Shakesp.
Ne'er let me pass in silence Dorset's name;Ne'er cease to mention the continu'd debt,Which the great patron only would forget. Prior.
 A guardian saint.
Thou amongst those saints, whom thou do'st see,Shall be a saint, and thine own nation's friendAnd patron. Fairy Queen, b. i.
St. Michael is mentioned as the patron of the Jews, and is now taken by the Christians, as the protector general of our religion. Dryden.
 Advocate; defender; vindicator.
We are no patrons of those things; the best defence whereof is speedy redress and amendment. Hooker, b. ii. s. 1.
Whether the minds of men have naturally imprinted on them the ideas of extension and number, I leave to those who are the patrons of innate principles. Locke.
 One who has donation of ecclesiastical preferment.

Pauciloquy
Pau'ciloquy. n.s. [pauciloquium, Lat.] Sparing and rare speech. Dict.

Pauper
Pau'per. n.s. [Latin.] A poor person; one who receives alms.

Pea
Pea. n.s. [pisum, Latin; pıꞅa, Saxon; pois, French.]
A pea hath a papilionaceous flower, and out of his empalement rises the pointal, which becomes a long pod full of roundish seeds; the stalks are fistulous and weak, and seem to perforate the leaves by which they are embraced; the other leaves grow by pairs along the midrib, ending in a tendril. 1. The species are sixteen: the greater garden pea, with white flowers and fruit. 2. Hotspur pea. 3. Dwarf pea. 4. French dwarf pea. 5. Pea with an esculent husk. 6. Sickle pea. 7. Common white pea. 8. Green rouncival pea. 9. Grey pea. 10. Maple rouncival pea. 11. Rose pea. 12. Spanish moretto pea. 13. Morrowfat or Dutch admiral pea. 14. Union pea. 15. Sea pea. 16. Pig pea. Miller.

Peak (noun)
Peak. n.s. [pac, Saxon; pique, pic, French.]

 The top of a hill or eminence.
                        Thy sister seek,Or on Meander's bank or Latmus' peak. Prior.
 Any thing acuminated.

 The rising forepart of a head-dress.

Pear
Pear. n.s. [poire, French; pyrum, Latin.]
The flower consists of several leaves, placed in a circular order, and expand in form of a rose, whose flower cup becomes a fleshy fruit, which is more produced toward the foot-stalk than the apple, but is hollowed like a navel at the extreme part; the cells, in which the seeds are lodged, are separated by soft membranes, and the seeds are oblong.  The species are eighty-four: 1. Little musk pear, commonly called the supreme. 2. The Chio pear, commonly called the little bastard musk pear. 3. The hasting pear, commonly called the green chissel.  4. The red muscadelle, it is also called the fairest. 5. The little muscat. 6. The jargonelle. 7. The Windsor pear. 8. The orange musk. 9. Great blanket. 10. The little blanket pear. 11. Long stalked blanket pear. 12. The skinless pear. 13. The musk robin pear. 14. The musk drone pear. 15. The green orange pear. 16. Cassolette. 17. The Magdalene pear. 18. The great onion pear. 19. The August muscat. 20. The rose pear. 21. The perfumed pear. 22. The summer bon chrêtien, or good christian. 23. Salviati. 24. Rose water pear. 25. The choaky pear. 26. The russelet pear. 27. The prince's pear. 28. The great mouth water pear. 29. Summer burgamot. 30. The Autumn burgamot. 31. The Swiss burgamot. 32. The red butter pear. 33. The dean's pear. 34. The long green pear; it is called the Autumn month water pear. 35. The white and grey monsieur John. 36. The flowered muscat. 37. The vine pear. 38. Rousseline pear. 39. The knave's pear. 40. The green sugar pear. 41. The marquis's pear. 42. The burnt cat; it is also called the virgin of Xantonce. 43. Le Besidery; it is so called from Heri, which is a forest in Bretagne between Bennes and Nantes, where this pear was found. 44. The crasane, or burgamot crasane; it is also called the flat butter pear. 45. The lansac, or dauphin pear. 46. The dry martin. 47. The villain of Anjou; it is also called the tulip pear and the great orange. 48. The large stalked pear. 49. The Amadot pear. 50. Little lard pear. 51. The good Lewis pear. 52. The colmar pear; it is also called the manna pear and the late burgamot. 53. The winter long green pear, or the landry wilding. 54. La virgoule, or la virgoleuse. 55. Poire d'Ambrette; this is so called from its musky flavour, which resembles the smell of the sweet sultan flower, which is called Ambrette in France. 56. The winter thorn pear. 57. The St. Germain pear, or the unknown of the la Fare; it being first discovered upon the banks of a river called by that name in the parish of St. Germain. 58. The St. Augustine. 59. The Spanish bon chrêtien. 60. The pound pear. 61. The wilding of Cassoy, a forest in Brittany, where it was discovered. 62. The lord Martin pear. 63. The winter citron pear; it is also called the musk orange pear in some places. 64. The winter rosselet. 65. The gate pear: this was discovered in the province of Pictou, where it was much esteemed. 66. Bergamotte Bugi; it is also called the Easter burgamot. 67. The winter bonchrêtien pear. 68. Catillac or cadillac. 69. La pastourelle. 70. The double flowering pear. 71. St. Martial; it is also called the angelic pear. 72. The wilding of Chaumontelle. 73. Carmelite. 74. The union pear. 75. The aurate. 76. The fine present; it is also called St. Sampson. 77. Le rousselet de reims. 78. The summer thorn pear. 79. The egg pear; so called from the figure of its fruit, which is shaped like an egg. 80. The orange tulip pear. 81. La mansuette. 82. The German muscat. 83. The Holland burgamot. 84. The pear of Naples. Miller.
They would whip me with their fine wits, till I were as crest-faln as a dried pear. Shakespeare's Merch. of Venice.
August shall bear the form of a young man, of a choleric aspect, upon his arm a basket of pears, plums and apples. Peac.
                              The juicy pearLies in a soft profusion scatter'd round. Thomson.

Peccadillo
Peccadi'llo. [Spanish; pecadille, French.] A petty fault; a slight crime; a venial offence.
He means those little vices, which we call follies and the defects of the human understanding, or at most the peccadillos of life, rather than the tragical vices to which men are hurried by their unruly passions. Dryden.
'Tis low ebb with his accusers, when such peccadilos as these are put in to swell the charge. Atterbury.

Peculate
Pecúlate.Pecúlation.

n.s. [peculatus, Latin; peculat, Fr.] Robbery of the publick; theft of publick money.

Peculation
Pecúlate.Pecúlation.

n.s. [peculatus, Latin; peculat, Fr.] Robbery of the publick; theft of publick money.

Peculiar (adjective)
Pecúliar. adj. [peculiaris, from peculium, Lat. pecule, Fr.]

 Appropriate; belonging to any one with exclusion of others.
I agree with Sir William Temple, that the word humour is peculiar to our English tongue; but not that the thing itself is peculiar to the English, because the contrary may be found in many Spanish, Italian and French productions. Swift.
 Not common to other things.
The only sacred hymns they are that christianity hath peculiar unto itself, the other being songs too of praise and of thanksgiving, but songs wherewith as we serve God, so the Jews likewise. Hooker, b. v. s. 39.
Space and duration being ideas that have something very abtruse and peculiar in their nature, the comparing them one with another may be of use for their illustration. Locke.
 Particular; single. To join most with peculiar, though found in Dryden, is improper.
One peculiar nation to selectFrom all the rest, of whom to be invok'd. Milton.I neither fear, nor will provoke the war;My fate is Juno's most peculiar care. Dryden.

Peculiar (noun)
Peculiar. n.s.

 The property; the exclusive property.
By tincture or reflection, they augmentTheir small peculiar. Milt. Par. Lost.
Revenge is so absolutely the peculiar of heaven, that no consideration whatever can empower even the best men to assume the execution of it. South's Sermons.
 Something abscinded from the ordinary jurisdiction.
Certain peculiars there are, some appertaining to the dignities of the cathedral church at Exon. Carew.

Pedantry
Pédantry. n.s. [pedanterie, Fr.] Awkward ostentation of needless learning.
 'Tis a practice that favours much of pedantry, a reserve of puerility we have not shaken off from school. Brown.
 Horace has enticed me into this pedantry of quotation. Cowl.
 Make us believe it, if you can: it is in Latin, if I may be allowed the pedantry of a quotation, non persuadebis, estimasi persuaseris. Addison's Freeholder.
 From the universities the young nobility are sent for fear of contracting any airs of pedantry by a college education. Swift.

Peddle
To Péddle. v.n. To be busy about trifles. Ains. It is commonly written piddle: as, what piddling work is here.

Pederero
Pederéro. n.s. [pedrero, Spanish, from piedra, a stone with which they charged it.] A small cannon managed by a swivel.  It is frequently written paterero.

Pedestrious
Pedéstrious. adj. [pedestris, Latin.] Not winged; going on foot.
Men conceive they never lie down, and enjoy not the position of rest, ordained unto all pedestrious animals. Brown.

Peevish
Peévish. adj. [This word Junius, with more reason than he commonly discovers, supposes to be formed by corruption from perverse; Skinner rather derives it from beeish, as we say waspish.] Petulant; waspish; easily offended; irritable; irascible; soon angry; perverse; morose; querulous; full of expressions of discontent; hard to please.
For what can breed more peevish incongruities,Than man to yield to female lamentations. Sidney.
She is peevish, sullen, froward,Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty. Shakesp.
If thou hast the metal of a king,Being wrong'd as we are by this peevish town,Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,As we will ours, against these saucy walls. Shakesp.
                I will not presumeTo send such peevish tokens to a king. Shakesp.
Those deserve to be doubly laugh'd at, that are peevish and angry for nothing to no purpose. L'Estrange.
Neither will it be satire or peevish invective to affirm, that infidelity and vice are not much diminished. Swift.

Pelf
Pelf. n.s. [In low Latin, pelfra, not known whence derived; peuffe, in Norman, is frippery.] Money; riches.
 The thought of this doth pass all worldly pelf. Sidney.
                            Hardy elf, Thou darest view my direful countenance, I read thee rash and heedless of thyself, To trouble my still seat and heaps of precious pelf. Fairy Queen.
 Immortal gods, I crave no pelf; I pray for no man by myself. Shakespeare.
 He call'd his money in; But the prevailing love of pelf Soon split him on the former shelf: He put it out again. Dryden's Horace.
 To the poor if he refus'd his pelf, He us'd them full as kindly as himself. Swift.

Penniless


Penny
Pénny. n.s. plural pence. [peniʒ, Saxon.]

 A small coin, of which twelve make a shilling: a penny is the radical denomination from which English coin is numbered, the copper halfpence and farthings being only nummorum famuli, a subordinate species of coin.
 She sighs and shakes her empty shoes in vain, No silver penny to reward her pain. Dryden.
 One frugal on his birth-day fears to dine, Does at a penny's cost in herbs repine. Dryden.
 Proverbially. A small sum.
                         You shall hear The legions, now in Gallia, sooner landed In our not fearing Britain, than have tidings Of any penny tribute paid. Shakespear's Cymbeline.
 We will not lend thee a penny. Shakespeare.
 Because there is a latitude of gain in buying and selling, take not the utmost penny that is lawful, for although it be lawful, yet it is not safe. Taylor's Living Holy.
 Money in general.
 Pepper and Sabean incense take; And with post-haste thy running markets make; Be sure to turn the penny. Dryden.
 It may be a contrivance of some printer, who hath a mind to make a penny. Swift's Miscellanies.

Pentachord
Péntachord. adj. [πέντε and χορδὴ.] An instrument with five strings.

People (noun)
Pe'ople. n.s. [peuple, Fr. populus, Lat.]

 A nation; these who compose a community.
 Prophesy again before many peoples and nations and tongues. Revelations x. 11.
 Ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in summer. Proverbs xxx. 25.
 What is the city but the people? True the people are the city. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
 The vulgar.
                     The knowing artist may Judge better than the people, but a play Made for delight, If you approve it not, has no excuse. Waller.
 The commonalty; not the princes or nobles.

 Persons of a particular class.
 If a man temper his actions to content every combination of people, the musick will be the fuller. Bacon.
 A small red flower in the stubble fields country people call the wincopipe. Bacon.
 Men, or persons in general. In this sense, the word people is used indefinitely, like ou in French.
 The frogs petitioning for a king, bids people have a care of struggling with heaven. L'Estrange.
 People were tempted to lend by great premiums and large interest. Swift's Miscellanies.
 Watery liquor will keep an animal from starving by diluting the fluids; for people have lived twenty-four days upon nothing but water. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 People in adversity should preserve laudable customs. Clarissa.

Pepasticks
Pe'pasticks. n.s. [πεπαίνω.] Medicines which are good to help the rawness of the stomach and digest crudities. Dict.

Perfidious
Perfídious. adj. [perfidus, Lat. perfide, Fr.] Treacherous; false to trust; guilty of violated faith.
 Tell me, perfidious, was it fit To make my cream a perquisite, And steal to mend your wages. Widow and Cat.

Perfunctorily
Perfu'nctorily. adv. [perfunctoriè, Lat.] Carelesly; negligently.
 His majesty casting his eye perfunctorily upon it, and believing it had been drawn by mature advice, no sooner received it, than he delivered it to the lord-keeper. Clarendon.
 Whereas all logic is reducible to the four principal operations of the mind, the two first of these have been handled by Aristotle very perfunctorily; of the fourth he has said nothing at all. Baker's Reflection on Learning.

Perfunctory
Perfúnctory. adj. [perfunctoriè, Lat.] Slight; careless; negligent.
 A transient and perfunctory examination of things leads men into considerable mistakes, which a more correct and rigorous scrutiny would have detected. Woodward.

Perspicacity
Perspicácity. n.s. [perspicacité, Fr.] Quickness of sight.
He that laid the foundations of the earth cannot be excluded the secrecy of the mountains; nor can there any thing escape the perspicacity of those eyes, which were before light, and in whose opticks there is no opacity. Brown.

Perturbatour
Perturbátour. n.s. [perturbator, Lat. perturbateur, Fr.] Raiser of commotions.

Perverse
Pérverse. adj. [pervers, Fr. pervursus, Lat.]

 Distorted from the right.
                And nature breedsPerverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things. Milton.
 Obstinate in the wrong; stubborn; untractable.
Then for the testimony of truth hast bornUniversal reproach; far worse to bearThan violence; for this was all thy careTo stand approv'd in sight of God, though worldsJudg'd thee perverse. Milton's Paradise Lost.
To so perverse a sex all grace is vain,It gives them courage to offend again. Dryden.
 Petulant; vexatious.
                Oh gentle Romeo,If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully,Or if you think I am too quickly won,I'll frown and be perverse, and say thee nay,So thou wilt wooe: but else not for the world. Shakesp.

Pestle
Péstle. n.s. [pistillum, Lat.] An instrument with which any thing is broken in a mortar.
 What real alteration can the beating of the pestle make in any body, but of the texture of it. Locke.
 Upon our vegetable food the teeth and jaws act as the pestle and mortar. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Phaenomenon
Phænomenon. n.s. This has sometimes phænomena in the plural. [φαίνομενον.] An appearance in the works of nature.
 The paper was black, and the colours intense and thick, that the phænomenon might be conspicuous. Newton.
 These are curiosities of little or no moment to the understanding the phænomenon of nature. Newton.

Phagedena
Phagedéna. n.s. [φαγέδαινα; from φάγω, edo, to eat.] An ulcer, where the sharpness of the humours eats away the flesh.

Phagedenick
Phagedénick.Phagedénous.

adj. [phagedenique, Fr.] Eating; corroding.


Phagedenick medicines, are those which eat away fungous or proud flesh.
 A bubo, according to its malignancy, either proves easily curable, or terminates in a phagedenous ulcer with jagged lips. Wiseman's Surgery.
 When they are very putrid and corrosive, which circumstances give them the name of foul phagedenick ulcers, some spirits of wine should be added to the fomentation. Sharp.

Phagedenous
Phagedénick.Phagedénous.

adj. [phagedenique, Fr.] Eating; corroding.


Phagedenick medicines, are those which eat away fungous or proud flesh.
 A bubo, according to its malignancy, either proves easily curable, or terminates in a phagedenous ulcer with jagged lips. Wiseman's Surgery.
 When they are very putrid and corrosive, which circumstances give them the name of foul phagedenick ulcers, some spirits of wine should be added to the fomentation. Sharp.

Phenicopter
Phenícopter. n.s. [φοινικόπτερος; phœnicopterus, Lat.] A kind of bird, which is thus described by Martial:
Dat mihi penna rubens nomen sed lingua gulosis Nostra sapit; quid si garrula lingua foret?
 He blended together the livers of guiltheads, the brains of pheasants and peacocks, tongues of phenicopters, and the melts of lampres. Hakewill on Providence.

Phenix
Phénix. n.s. [φόινιξ; phœnix, Lat.] The bird which is supposed to exist single, and to rise again from its own ashes.
 There is one tree, the phenix throne; one phenix At this hour reigning there. Shakesp. Tempest.
 To all the fowls he seems a phenix. Milton.
 Having the idea of a phenix in my mind, the first enquiry is, whether such a thing does exist? Locke.

Phial
Phíal. n.s. [phiala, Lat. phiôle, Fr.] A small bottle.
 Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole With juice of cursed hebenon in a phial. Shakesp.
 He proves his explications by experiments made with a phial full of water, and with globes of glass filled with water. Newton's Optics.

Philanthropy
Philánthropy. n.s. [φιλέω and ἄνθροπος.] Love of mankind; good nature.
 Such a transient temporary good nature is not that philanthropy, that love of mankind, which deserves the title of a moral virtue. Addison's Spectator, № 177.

Philippick
Philíppick. adj. [from the invectives of Demosthenes against Philip of Macedon.] Any invective declamation.

Philomot
Phílomot. adj. [corrupted from feuille morte, a dead leaf.] Coloured like a dead leaf.
 One of them was blue, another yellow, and another philomot, the fourth was of a pink colour, and the fifth of a pale green. Addison's Spectator, № 265.

Philosopheme
Philósopheme. n.s. [φιλοσόφημα.] Principle of reasoning; theorem. An unusual word.
 You will learn how to address yourself to children for their benefit, and derive some useful philosophemes for your own entertainment. Watts.

Philosophy


Piccage
Píccage. n.s. [piccagium, low Lat.] Money paid at fairs for breaking ground for booths. Ains.

Pickeer
To Píckeer. v.a. [piccare, Italian.]

 To pirate; to pillage; to rob.

 To make a flying skirmish. Ainsworth.
No sooner could a hint appear,But up he started to pickeer,And made the stoutest yield to mercy,When he engag'd in controversy. Hudibras.

Pie
Pie. n.s. [This word is derived by Skinner from biezan, to build, that is to build of paste; by Junius derived by contraction from pasty; if pasties, doubled together without walls, were the first pies, the derivation is easy from pie, a foot; as in some provinces, an apple pasty is still called an apple foot.]

 Any crust baked with something in it.
            No man's pie is freed From his ambitious finger. Shakesp. Henry VIII.
 Mincing of meat in pies saveth the grinding of the teeth, and therefore more nourishing to them that have weak teeth. Bacon's Natural History.
 He is the very Withers of the city; they have bought more editions of his works, than would serve to lay under all their pies at a lord mayor's Christmas. Dryden.
           Chuse your materials right; From thence of course the figure will arise, And elegance adorn the surface of your pies. King.
 Eat beef or pie-crust, if you'd serious be. King.
 [Pica, Lat.] A magpie; a particoloured bird.
 The pie will discharge thee for pulling the rest. Tusser.
 The raven croak'd hoarse on the chimney's top, And chattering pies in dismal discords sung. Shakesp.
 Who taught the parrot human notes to try, Or with a voice endu'd the chatt'ring pie?'Twas witty want. Dryden.
 The old popish service book, so called, as is supposed, from the different colour of the text and rubrick.

 Cock and pie was a slight expression in Shakespeare's time, of which I know not the meaning.
Mr. Slender, come; we stay for you. —— I'll eat nothing, I thank you, Sir. — — By cock and pie, you shall not chuse, Sir; come, come. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.

Piece (noun)
Piece. n.s. [piece, Fr.]

 A patch. Ainsworth.

 A part of a whole; a fragment.
 Bring it out piece by piece. Ezekiel xxiv. 26.
 The chief captain, fearing lest Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them,  commanded to take him by force. Acts.
 These lesser rocks or great bulky stones, that lie scattered in the sea or upon the land, are they not manifest fragments and pieces of these greater masses. Barnet.
 A man that is in Rome can scarce see an object, that does not call to mind a piece of a Latin poet or historian. Addison.
 A part.
 It is accounted a piece of excellent knowledge, to know the laws of the land. Tillotson.
 A picture.
 If unnatural, the finest colours are but dawbing, and the piece is a beautiful monster at the best. Dryden.
 Each heav'nly piece unweary'd we compare, Match Raphael's grace with thy lov'd Guido's air. Pope.
 A composition; performance.
 He wrote several pieces, which he did not assume the honour of. Addison.
 A single great gun.
 A piece of ord'nance 'gainst it I have plac'd. Shakespeare.
 Many of the ships have brass pieces, whereas every piece at least requires four gunners to attend it. Raleigh's Essays.
 Pyrrhus, with continual battery of great pieces, did batter the mount. Knolles's History of the Turks.
 A hand gun.
 When he cometh to experience of service abroad, or is put to a piece or a pike, he maketh as worthy a soldier as any nation he meeteth with. Spenser.
 The ball goes on in the direction of the stick, or of the body of the piece out of which it is shot. Cheyne.
 A coin; a single piece of money.
 When once the poet's honour ceases, From reason far his transports rove; And Boileau, for eight hundred pieces, Makes Louis take the wall of Jove. Prior.
 In ridicule and contempt: as, a piece of a lawyer or smatterer.

 A-PIECE.  To each.
 I demand, concerning all those creatures that have eyes and ears, whether they might not have had only one eye and one ear a-piece. More's Antidote against Atheism.
 Of a Piece with. Like; of the same sort; united; the same with the rest.
 Truth and fiction are so aptly mix'd, That all seems uniform and of a piece. Roscommon.
 When Jupiter granted petitions, a cockle made request, that his house and his body might be all of a piece. L'Estr.
 My own is of a piece with his, and were he living, they are such as he would have written. Dryden.
 I appeal to my enemies, if I or any other man could have invented one which had been more of a piece, and more depending on the serious part of the design. Dryden.
 Too justly vanish'd from an age like this; Now she is gone, the world is of a piece. Dryden.
 Nothing but madness can please madmen, and a poet must be of a piece with the spectators, to gain a reputation. Dryden.

Pigeon
Pígeon. n.s. [pigeon, Fr.] A fowl bred in cots or a small house: in some places called a dovecote.
 This fellow picks up wit as pigeons peas. Shakesp.
 A turtle, dove, and a young pigeon. Gen. xv. 9.
 Perceiving that the pigeon had lost a piece of her tail, through the next opening of the rocks rowing with all their might, they passed safe, only the end of their poop was bruised. Raleigh.
 Fix'd in the mast, the feather'd weapon stands, The fearful pigeon flutters in her bands. Dryden.
 See the cupola of St. Paul's covered with both sexes, like the outside of a pigeon-house. Addison's Guardian.
 This building was design'd a model, Or of a pigeon-house or oven, To bake one loaf, or keep one dove in. Swift.

Pight


Pigsney
Pígsney. n.s. [piʒa, Sax. a girl.] A word of endearment to a girl. It is used by Butler for the eye of a woman, I believe, improperly.
 Shine upon me but benignly With that one, and that other pigsney. Hudibras.

Pilosity
Pilósity. n.s. [from pilosus, Lat.] Hairiness.
 At the years of puberty, all effects of heat do then come on, as pilosity, more roughness in the skin. Bacon.

Pimping
Pímping. adj. [pimple mensch, a weak man, Dutch.] Little; petty: as, a pimping thing. Skinner.

Pimple
Pímple. n.s. [pompette, Fr.] A small red pustule.
 If Rosalinda is unfortunate in her mole, Nigranilla is as unhappy in a pimple. Addison's Spect.
 If e'er thy gnome could spoil a grace, Or raise a pimple on a beauteous face. Pope.

Pineapple
Píneapple. n.s.
The pineapple hath a flower consisting of one leaf, divided into three parts, and is funnel-shaped: the embryos are produced in the tubercles: these become a fleshy fruit full of juice: the seeds, which are lodged in the tubercles, are very small and almost kidney-shaped. Miller.
 Try if any words can give the taste of a pineapple, and make one have the true idea of its relish. Locke.
 If a child were kept where he never saw but black and white, he would have no more ideas of scarlet, than he that never tasted a pineapple, has of that particular relish. Locke.

Piqueer
To Piqueér. See Pickeer.

Piqueerer
Piqueérer. n.s. A robber; a plunderer. Rather pickeerer.
When the guardian professed to engage in faction, the word was given, that the guardian would soon be seconded by some other piqueerers from the same camp. Swift.

Piracy
Píracy. n.s. [πειρατεία; piratica, Lat. piraterie, Fr. from pirate.] The act or practice of robbing on the sea.
Our gallants, in their fresh gale of fortune, began to skum the seas with their piracies. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
Now shall the ocean, as thy Thames, be free,From both those fates of storms and piracy. Waller.
Fame swifter than your winged navy flies,Sounding your name, and telling dreadful newsTo all that piracy and rapine use. Waller.
His pretence for making war upon his neighbours was their piracies; though he practised the same trade. Arbuthnot.

Pirate (noun)
Pírate. n.s. [πειρατής, pirata, Lat. pirate, Fr.]

 A sea-robber.
            Wrangling pirates that fall outIn sharing that which you have pill'd from me. Shakesp.
Pirates all nations are to prosecute, not so much in the right of their own fears, as upon the band of human society. Bacon.
Relate, if business or the thirst of gainEngage your journey o'er the pathless main,Where savage pirates seek through seas unknownThe lives of others, vent'rous of their own. Pope.
 Any robber; particularly a bookseller who seizes the copies of other men.

Pirate (verb active)
To Pírate. v.a. [pirater, Fr.] To take by robbery.
They publickly advertised, they would pirate his edition. Pope.

Pirate (verb neuter)
To Pírate. v.n. [from the noun.] To rob by sea.
When they were a little got out of their former condition, they robbed at land and pirated by sea. Arbuthnot.
Nabis possessed himself of the coast near to Sparta, and there pirated outrageously upon all the Peloponnesian trade. Arbuthnot on Coins.

Piratical
Pirátical. adj. [piraticus, Lat. from pirate.] Predatory; robbing; consisting in robbery.
Having gotten together ships and barks, fell to a kind of piratical trade, robbing, spoiling and taking prisoners the ships of all nations. Bacon's Henry VII.
The errors of the press were multiplied by piratical printers; to not one of whom I ever gave any other encouragement, than that of not prosecuting them. Pope.

Pish (interjection)
Pish. interj.  A contemptuous exclamation.  This is sometimes spoken and written pshaw.  I know not their etymology, and imagine them formed by chance.
There was never yet philosopher That could endure the toothach patiently; However they have writ, And made a pish at chance or sufferance. Shakesp.
 She frowned and cried pish, when I said a thing that I stole. Spectator, № 268.

Pish (verb)
To Pish. v.n. [from the interjection.] To express contempt.
He turn'd over your Homer, shook his head, and pish'd at every line of it. Pope.

Pismire
Pi'smire. n.s. [myꞃa, Sax. pismiere, Dutch.]  An ant; an emmet.
His cloaths, as atoms might prevail, Might fit a pismire or whale. Prior.
Prejudicial to fruit are pismires, caterpillars and mice. Mort.

Piss (noun)
Piss. n.s..  [from the verb.] Urine; animal water.
My spleen is at the little rogues, it would vex one more to be knock'd on the head with a piss-pot than a thunder bolt. Pope to Swift.

Piss (verb)
To Piss. v.n..  [pisser, Fr. pissen, Dutch.] To make water.
I charge the pissing conduit run nothing but claret. Shakesp.
One ass pisses, the rest piss for company. L'Estrange.
Once possess'd of what with care you save, The wanton boys would piss upon your grave. Dryden.

Pissabed
Pi'ssabed. n.s.  A yellow flower growing in the grass.

Pissburnt
Pi'ssburnt. adj.  Stained with urine.

Pit (noun)
Pit. n.s.  [pıꞇ, Saxon.]

  A hole in the ground.
                          Get you gone, And from the pit of Acheron Meet me i' th' morning. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 Tumble me into some loathsome pit, Where never man's eye may behold my body. Shakesp.
 Our enemies have beat us to the pit; It is more worthy to leap in ourselves, Than tarry 'till they push us. Shakesp. Julius Caesar.
 Pits upon the sea-shore turn into fresh water, by percolation of the salt through the sand; but in some places of Africa, the water in such pits will become brackish again. Bacon.
 Abyss; profundity.
              Into what pit thou seest From what height fallen. Milton.
 The grave.
 O Lord, think no scorn of me, lest I become like them that go down into the pit. Psalm xxviii. 1.
 The area on which cocks fight; whence the phrase, to fly the pit.
 Make him glad, at least, to quit His victory, and fly the pit. Hudibras.
 They managed the dispute as fiercely, as two game-cocks in the pit. Locke on Education.
 The middle part of the theatre.
 Let Cully, Cockwood, Fopling charm the pit, And in their folly shew the writers wit. Dryden.
 Now luck for us, and a kind heartypit; For he who pleases, never fails of wit. Dryden.
 [Pis, peis, old Fr. from pectus, Lat.]  Any hollow of the body: as, the pit of the stomach; the arm pit.

 A dint made by the finger.

Pitch (noun)


Pitch (verb active)


Pitch (verb neuter)
To Pitch. v.n.

 To light; to drop.
 When the swarm is settled, take a branch of the tree whereon they pitch, and wipe the hive clean. Mortimer.
 To fall headlong.
 The courser o'er the pommel cast the knight; Forward he flew, and pitching on his head, He quiver'd with his feet, and lay for dead. Dryden.
 To fix choice.
 We think 'tis no great matter which, They're all alike, yet we shall pitch On one that fits our purpose. Hudibras.
 A free agent will pitch upon such a part of his choice, with knowledge certain. More's Divine Dialogues.
 The subject I have pitched upon may seem improper. South.
 I pitched upon this consideration that parents owe their  children, not only material subsistence, but much more spiritual contribution to their mind. Digby on the Soul.
 The covetous man was a good while at a stand; but he came however by degrees to pitch upon one thing after another. L'Estrange's Fables.
 Pitch upon the best course of life, and custom will render it most easily. Tillotson's Sermons.
 I translated Chaucer, and amongst the rest pitched upon the wife of Bath's tale. Dryden's Fables.
 To fix a tent or temporary habitation.
 They pitched by Emmaus in the plain. 1 Mac. iii. 40.

Plash (noun)
Plash.  n.s. [plasche, Dutch; platz, Danish.]

 A small lake of water or puddle.
                He leavesA shallow plash to plunge him in the deep,And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst. Shakesp.
Two frogs consulted, in the time of drought, when many plashes, that they had repaired to, were dry, what was to be done. Bacon.
I understand the aquatile or water frog, whereof in ditches and standing plashes we behold millions. Brown.
With filth the miscreant lies bewray'd,Fall'n in the plash his wickedness had laid. Pope.
 [From the verb to plash.] Branch partly cut off and bound to other branches.
In the plashing your quick, avoid laying of it too low and too thick, which makes the sap run all into the shoots, and leaves the plashes without nourishment. Mortimer.

Plash (verb)
To Plash. v.a. [plesser, Fr.] To interweave branches.
Plant and plash quicksets. Evelyn.

Plashy
Pláshy. adj. [from plash.] Watry; filled with puddles.
Near stood a mill in low and plashy ground. Betterton.

Plentiful
Pléntiful.  adj. [plenty and full.] Copious; abundant; exuberant; fruitful.
To Amalthea he gave a country, bending like a horn; whence the tale of Amalthea's plentiful horn. Raleigh.
He that is plentiful in expences, will hardly be preserved from decay. Bacon's Essays.
If it be a long winter, it is commonly a more plentiful year. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
When they had a plentiful harvest, the farmer had hardly any corn. L'Estrange.
Alcibiades was a young man of noble birth, excellent education and a plentiful fortune. Swift.

Plentifully
Pléntifully. adv. [from plentiful.] Copiously; abundantly.
They were not multiplied before, but they were at that time plentifully encreased. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
Bern is plentifully furnished with water, there being a great multitude of fountains. Addison's Remarks on Italy.

Plentifulness
Pléntifulness. n.s. [from plentiful.] The state of being plentiful; abundance; fertility.

Plenty
Plénty. n.s. [from plenus, full.]

 Abundance; such a quantity as is more than enough.
                        Peace,Dear nurse of arts, plenties and joyful birth. Shakesp.
What makes land, as well as other things, dear, is plenty of buyers, and but few sellers; and so plenty of sellers and few buyers makes land cheap. Locke.
 Fruitfulness; exuberance.
                The teeming cloudsDescend in gladsome plenty o'er the world. Thomson.
 It is used, I think, barbarously for plentiful.
To grass with thy calves,Where water is plenty. Tusser's Husbandry.
If reasons were as plenty as black berries, I would give no man a reason on compulsion. Shakesp. Henry IV.
 A state in which enough is had and enjoyed.
Ye shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and praise the Lord. Joel ii. 26.

Pleonasm
Ple'onasm. n.s. [pleonasme, Fr. pleonasmus, Lat.] A figure of rhetorick, by which more words are used than are necessary.

Plesh
Plesh. n.s. [A word used by Spenser instead of plash, for the convenience of rhyme.] A puddle; a boggy marsh.
Out of the wound the red blood flowed fresh,That underneath his feet soon made a purple plesh.Spenser.

Plethora
Pléthora. n.s. [from πληθωρα.] The state in which the vessels are fuller of humours than is agreeable to a natural state or health; arises either from a diminution of some natural evacuations, or from debauch and feeding higher or more in quantity than the ordinary powers of the viscera can digest: evacuations and exercise are its remedies.
The diseases of the fluids are a plethora, or too great abundance of laudable juices. Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Plethoretick
Plethore'tick.Pletho'rick.

adj. [from plethora.] Having a full habit.


The fluids, as they consist of spirit, water, salts, oil and terrestrial parts, differ according to the redundance of the whole or of any of these; and therefore the plethorick are phlegmatick, oily, saline, earthy or dry. Arbuthnot.

Plethorick
Plethorétick.Plethórick.

adj. [from plethora.] Having a full habit.


The fluids, as they consist of spirit, water, salts, oil and terrestrial parts, differ according to the redundance of the whole or of any of these; and therefore the plethorick are phlegmatick, oily, saline, earthy or dry. Arbuthnot.

Plethory
Pléthory. n.s. [plethore, Fr. from πληθώρα.] Fulness of habit.
In too great repletion, the elastick force of the tube throws the fluid with too great a force, and subjects the animal to the diseases depending upon a plethory. Arbuthnot.

Politicks
Póliticks. n.s. [politique, Fr. πολιτικὴ.] The science of government; the art or practice of administring publick affairs.
 Be pleas'd your politicks to spare, I'm old enough, and can myself take care. Dryden.
 It would be an everlasting reproach to politicks, should such men overturn an establishment formed by the wisest laws, and supported by the ablest heads. Addison.
 Of crooked counsels and dark politicks. Pope.

Poltron
Póltron. n.s. [pollice truncato, from the thumb cut off; it being once a practice of cowards to cut off their thumbs, that they might not be compelled to serve in war. Saumaise. Menage derives it from the Italian poltro, a bed; as cowards feign themselves sick a bed: others derive it from poletro or poltro, a young unbroken horse.] A coward; a nidgit; a scoundrel.
 Patience is for poltrons. Shakesp.
 They that are bruis'd with wood or fists, And think one beating may for once Suffice, are cowards and poltrons. Hudibras, p. ii.
 For who but a poltron possess'd with fear, Such haughty insolence can tamely bear. Dryden.

Poly (noun)
Póly. n.s. [polium, Lat.] An herb. Ainsworth.

Poly (prefix)
Póly. [πολὺ.] A prefix often found in the composition of words derived from the Greek, and intimating multitude: as, polygon, a figure of many angles; polypus, an animal with many feet.

Polyacoustick
Polýacoustick. adj. [πολὺς and ἀκούω.] Any thing that multiplies or magnifies sounds. Dict.

Polyglot
Pólyglot. adj. [πολύγλωττος; polyglotte, Fr.] Having many languages.
The polyglot or linguist is a learned man. Howel.

Polygon
Pólygon. n.s. [polygone, Fr. πολὺς and γωνία.] A figure of many angles.
He began with a single line; he joined two lines in an angle, and he advanced to triangles and squares, polygons and circles. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.

Polypody
Polýpody. n.s. [polypodium, Latin.] A plant.
Polypody is a capillary plant with oblong jagged leaves, having a middle rib, which joins them to the stalks running through each division. Miller.
Polypody is common on the banks of ditches where there are stumps of old trees, on walls, and by the sides of woods: polypody is attenuant and dissolvent. Hill's Materia Medica.
A kind of polypody groweth out of trees, though it windeth not. Bacon's Natural History.

Polypus
Polýpus. n.s. [πολύπους; polype, Fr.]

 Polypus signifies any thing in general with many roots or feet, as a swelling in the nostrils; but it is likewise applied to a tough concretion of grumous blood in the heart and arteries. Quincy.
 The polypus of the nose is said to be an excrescence of flesh, spreading its branches amongst the laminæ of the os ethmoides, and through the whole cavity of one or both nostrils. Sharp's Surgery.
 The juices of all austere vegetables, which coagulate the spittle, being mixed with the blood in the veins, form polypusses in the heart. Arbuthnot on Aliments.
 A sea animal with many feet.
 The polypus, from forth his cave Torn with full force, reluctant beats the wave, His ragged claws are stuck with stones. Pope.

Ponk
Ponk. n.s. [Of this word I know not the original.] A nocturnal spirit; a hag.
Ne let the ponk, nor other evil sprights,Ne let mischievous witches. Spenser.

Pontage
Póntage. n.s. [pons, pontis, bridge.] Duty paid for the reparation of bridges.
In right of the church, they were formerly by the common law discharged from pontage and murage. Ayliffe.

Ponton
Pónton. n.s. [French.]
Ponton is a floating bridge or invention to pass over water: it is made of two great boats placed at some distance from one another, both planked over, as is the interval between them, with rails on their sides: the whole so strongly built as to carry over horse and cannon. Military Dict.
The black prince passed many a river without the help of pontons. Spectator, № 165.

Pony
Póny. n.s. [I know not the origin of this word.] A small horse.

Portmanteau
Portmànteau. n.s. [portemanteau, Fr.] A chest or bag in which cloaths are carried.
I desired him to carry one of my portmanteaus; but he laughed, and bid another do it. Spectator.

Posset (noun)
Pósset. n.s. [posca, Lat.] Milk curdled with wine or any acid.
We'll have a posset at the latter end of a seacoal fire. Shak.
In came the bridemaids with the posset,The bridegroom eat in spight. Suckling.
I allowed him medicated broths, posset ale and pearl julep. Wiseman's Surgery.
A sparing diet did her health assure;Or sick, a pepper posset was her cure. Dryden.
The cure of the stone consists in vomiting with posset drink, in which althea roots are boiled. Floyer on the Humours.
Increase the milk when it is diminished by the too great use of flesh meats, by gruels and posset drink. Arbuthnot.

Postulatum
Postulátum. n.s. [Latin.] Position assumed without proof.
 Calumnies often refuted, are the postulatums of scriblers, upon which they proceed as upon first principles. Addison.

Power
Pówer. n.s. [pouvoir, Fr.]

 Command; authority; dominion; influence.
If law, authority and pow'r deny not,It will go hard with poor Anthonio. Shakesp.
No man could ever have a just power over the life of another, by right of property in land. Locke.
Power is no blessing in itself, but when it is employ'd to protect the innocent. Swift.
 Influence; prevalence upon.
This man had power with him, to draw him forth to his death. Bacon.
Dejected! no, it never shall be said,That fate had power upon a Spartan soul;My mind on its own centre stands unmov'dAnd stable, as the fabrick of the world. Dryden.
 Ability; force; reach.
That which moveth God to work is goodness, and that which ordereth his work is wisdom, and that which perfecteth his work is power. Hooker.
        I have suffer'd in your woe;Nor shall be wanting ought within my pow'r,For your relief in my refreshing bow'r. Dryden.
You are still living to enjoy the blessings of all the good you have performed, and many prayers that your power of doing generous actions may be as extended as your will. Dry.
It is not in the power of the most enlarged understanding, to invent one new simple idea in the mind, not taken in by the ways aforementioned. Locke.
'Tis not in the power of want or slavery to make them miserable. Addison's Guardian.
Though it be not in our power to make affliction no affliction; yet it is in our power to take off the edge of it, by a steady view of those divine joys prepared for us in another state. Atterbury's Sermons.
 Strength; motive force.
Observing in ourselves, that we can at pleasure move several parts of our bodies, which were at rest; the effects also that natural bodies are able to produce in one another, occurring every moment to our senses, we both these ways get the idea of power. Locke.
 The moving force of an engine.
by understanding the true difference betwixt the weight and the power, a man may add such a fitting supplement to the strength of the power, that it shall move any conceivable weight, though it should never so much exceed that force, which the power is naturally endowed with. Wilkins.
 Animal strength; natural strength.
Care, not fear; or fear not for themselves altered something the countenances of the two lovers: but so as any man might perceive, was rather an assembling of powers than dismayedness of courage. Sidney, b. i.
He died of great years, but of strong health and powers. Bacon's Henry VII.
 Faculty of the mind.
                        If everYou meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,Then you shall know the wounds invisible,That love's keen arrows make. Shakesp.
I was in the thought, they were not fairies, and yet the guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprize of my powers drove the grossness of the foppery into a received belief. Shakesp.
In our little world, this soul of oursBeing only one, and to one body ty'd,Doth use, on divers objects, divers powers;And so are her effects diversify'd. Davies.
Maintain the empire of the mind over the body, and keep the appetites of the one in due subjection to the reasoning powers of the other. Atterbury's Sermons.
The design of this science is to rescue our reasoning powers from their unhappy slavery and darkness. Watts.
 Government; right of governing.
                        My labourHonest and lawful, to deserve my foodOf those who have me in their civil power. Milton.
 Sovereign; potentate.
'Tis surprising to consider with what heats these two powers have contested their title to the kingdom of Cyprus, that is in the hands of the Turk. Addison's Remarks on Italy.
 One invested with dominion.
After the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. Mat.
The fables turn'd some men to flow'rs,And others did with brutish forms invest;And did of others make celestial pow'rs,Like angels, which still travel, yet still rest. Davies.
            If there's a pow'r above us,And that there is all nature cries aloudThrough all her works, he must delight in virtue. Addis.
 Divinity.
                    Merciful powers!Restrain in me the curied thoughts, that natureGives way to in repose. Shakespeare's Macbeth.
cast down thyself, and only strive to raiseThe glory of thy maker's sacred name;Use all thy pow'rs, that blessed pow'r to praise,Which gives thee pow'r to be and use the same. Davies.
With indignation, thus he brokeHis awful silence, and the pow'rs bespoke. Dryden.
                    Tell me,What are the gods the better for this gold?The wretch that offers from his wealthy storeThese presents, bribes the pow'rs to give him more. Dryd.
 Host; army; military force.
He, to work him the more mischief, sent over his brother Edward with a power of Scots and Redshanks into Ireland, where they got footing. Spenser's State of Ireland.
                Never such a power,For any foreign preparation,Was levied in the body of a land. Shakesp. K. John.
        Young Octavius and Mark AntonyCome down upon us with a mighty power,Bending their expedition tow'rd Philippi. Shakesp.
                Who leads his power?Under whose government come they along? Shakesp.
                My heart, dear Harry,Threw many a northward look, to see his fatherbring up his pow'rs; but he did long in vain. Shakesp.
Gazellus, upon the coming of the bassa, valiantly issued forth with all his power, and gave him battle. Knolles.
 A large quantity; a great number.  In low language: as, a power of good things.

Prevaricate
To Preváricate. v.n. [prævaricor, Lat. prevariquer, Fr.] To cavil; to quibble; to shuffle.
Laws are either disannulled or quite prevaricated through change and alteration of times, yet they are good in themselves. Spenser.
He prevaricates with his own understanding, and cannot seriously consider the strength, and discern the evidence of argumentations against his desires. South.
Whoever helped him to this citation, I desire he will never trust him more; for I would think better of himself, than that he would wilfully prevaricate. Stillingfleet.

Prick (noun)


Prim (adjective)
Prim. adj. [by contraction from primitive.] Formal; precise; affectedly nice.
A ball of new dropt horse's dung,Mingling with apples in the throng,Said to the pippin, plum and prim,See, brother, how we apples swim. Swift's Miscel.

Prim (verb)
To Prim. v.a. [from the adjective.] To deck up precisely; to form to an affected nicety.

Primate
Prímate. n.s. [primat, Fr. primas, Lat.] The chief ecclesiastick.
When the power of the church was first established, the archbishops of Canterbury and York had then no preheminence one over the other; the former being primate over the Southern, as the latter was over the Northern parts. Ayliffe.
The late and present primate, and the lord archbishop of Dublin hath left memorials of his bounty. Swift.

Primogeniture
Primogéniture. n.s. [primogeniture, Fr. from primo genitus; Lat.] Seniority; eldership; state of being firstborn.
Because the scripture affordeth the priority of order unto Sem, we cannot from hence infer his primogeniture. Brown.
The first provoker has, by his seniority and primogeniture, a double portion of the guilt. Government of the Tongue.

Primordial (adjective)
Primórdial. adj. [primordial, Fr. primordium, Lat.] Original; existing from the beginning.
Salts may be either transmuted or otherwise produced, and so may not be primordial and immutable beings. Boyle.

Primordial (noun)
Primórdial. n.s. [from the adj.] Origin; first principle.
The primordials of the world are not mechanical, but spermatical and vital. More's Divine Dialogues.

Princock
Pri'ncock.Pri'ncox.

n.s. [from prink or prim cock; perhaps præcox or præcoquum ingenium, Lat.] A coxcomb; a conceited person, a pert young rogue.


                     You are a saucy boy; This trick may chance to scathe you I know what; You must contrary me! you are a princox, go. Shakesp.

Princox
Pri'ncock.Pri'ncox.

n.s. [from prink or prim cock; perhaps præcox or præcoquum ingenium, Lat.] A coxcomb; a conceited person, a pert young rogue.


                     You are a saucy boy; This trick may chance to scathe you I know what; You must contrary me! you are a princox, go. Shakesp.

Prink


Print (verb active)


Privacy
Prívacy. n.s. [from private.]

 State of being secret; secrecy.

 Retirement; retreat.
Clamours our privacies uneasy made,Birds leave their nests distrub'd, and beasts their haunts forsake. Dryden.
 [Privauté, Fr.] Privity; joint knowledge; great familiarity. Privacy in this sense is improper.
You see Frog is religiously true to his bargain, scorns to hearken to any composition without your privacy. Arbuthnot.
 Taciturnity.

Privado
Privádo. n.s. [Spanish.] A secret friend.
The lady Brampton, an English lady, embarked for Portugal at that time, with some privado of her own. Bacon.

Private (adjective)
Prívate. adj. [privatus, Lat.]

 Not open; secret.
                You shall go with me;I have some private schooling for you both. Shakesp.
                Fancy retiresInto her private cell, when nature rests. Milton.
The harmless freedom, and the private friend. Anon.
 Alone; not accompanied.

 Being upon the same terms with the rest of the community; particular: opposed to publick.
When publick consent of the whole hath established any thing, every man's judgment, being thereunto compared, were not private, howsoever his calling be to some kind of publick charge; so that of peace and quietness there is not any way possible, unless the probable voice of every intire society or body politic overrule all private of like nature in the same body. Hooker's Preface.
                        He suesTo let him breathe between the heav'ns and earth,A private man in Athens. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleop.
What infinite heartease must kings neglect,That private men enjoy? and what have kings,That private have not too, save ceremony? Shakesp.
Peter was but a private man, and not to be any way compared with the dukes of his house. Peacham of Antiquities.
The first principles of christian religion should not be farced with school points and private tenets. Sanderson.
                    Dare you,A private man presume to love a queen. Dryden.
 Particular; not relating to the publick.
My end being private, I have not expressed my conceptions in the language of the schools. Digby.
 In Private. Secretly; not publickly; not openly.
In private grieve, but with a careless scorn;In publick seem to triumph, not to mourn. Granville.

Private (noun)
Prívate. n.s. A secret message.
His private with me of the dauphin's love,Is much more general than these lines import. Shakesp.

Privateer (noun)
Prívateer. n.s. [from private.] A ship fitted out by private men to plunder enemies.
He is at no charge for a fleet, further than providing privateers, wherewith his subjects carry on a pyratical war at their own expence. Swift's Miscellanies.

Privateer (verb)
To Prívateer. v.a. [from the noun.] To fit out ships against enemies, at the charge of private persons.

Probable
Próbable. adj. [probable, Fr. probabilis, Lat.] Likely; having more evidence than the contrary.
 The publick approbation, given by the body of this whole church unto those things which are established, doth make it but probable that they are good, and therefore unto a necessary proof that they are not good it must give place. Hooker.
 That is accounted probable, which has better arguments producible for it, than can be brought against it. South.
 They assented to things, that were neither evident nor certain, but only probable; for they conversed, they merchandized upon a probable persuasion of the honesty and truth of those whom they corresponded with. South's Sermons.

Procrastinate (verb active)
To Procrástinate. v.a. [procrastinor, Lat.] To defer; to delay; to put off from day to day.
 Hopeless and helpless doth Ægeon wind, But to procrastinate his lifeless end. Shakesp.
 Let men seriously and attentively listen to that voice within them, and they will certainly need no other medium to convince them, either of the error or danger of thus procrastinating their repentance. Decay of Piety.

Procrastinate (verb neuter)
To Procrástinate. v.n. To be dilatory.
 I procrastinate more than I did twenty years ago, and have several things to finish, which I put off to twenty years hence. Swift to Pope.

Procrastination
Procrastinátion. n.s. [procrastinatio, Lat. from procrastinate.] Delay; dilatoriness.
 How desperate the hazard of such procrastination is, hath been convincingly demonstrated by better pens. D. of Piety.

Procrastinator
Procrastinátor. n.s. [from procrastinate.] A dilatory person.

Protest (verb neuter)


Proximity
Proxímity. n.s. [proximité, Fr. proximitas, from proximus, Latin.] Nearness.
When kingdoms have customably been carried by right of succession, according to proximity of blood, the violation of this course hath always been dangerous. Hayward.
If he plead proximity of blood,That empty title is with ease withstood. Dryden.
Add the convenience of the situation of the eye, in respect of its proximity to the brain, the seat of common sense. Ray.
Must we send to stab or poison all the popish princes, who have any pretended title to our crown by the proximity of blood? Swift's Miscellanies.

Prudent
Prúdent. adj. [prudent, Fr. prudens, Lat.]

 Practically wise.
 The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge. Prov. xiv. 18.
 I have seen a son of Jesse, that is a man of war, and prudent in matters. 1 Sam. xvi. 18.
 The monarch prevented all reply, Prudent, lest others might offer. Milton.
 Foreseeing by natural instinct.
 So steers the prudent crane Her annual voyage. Milton.

Pseudo
Pseu'do. n.s. [from ψεῦδος.] A prefix, which, being put before words, signifies false or counterfeit: as, pseudapostle, a counterfeit apostle.

Pseudography
Pseu'dography. n.s. False writing.
I will not pursue the many pseudographies in use, but shew of how great concern the emphasis were, if rightly used. Hold.

Pseudology
Pseu'dology. n.s. [ψεθδολογία.] Falsehood of speech.
It is not according to the sound rules of pseudology, to report of a pious prince, that he neglects his devotion, but you may report of a merciful prince, that he has pardoned a criminal who did not deserve it. Arbuthnot.

Pshaw
Pshaw. interj. An expression of contempt.
A peevish fellow has some reason for being out of humour, or has a natural incapacity for delight, and therefore disturbs all with pishes and pshaws. Spectator, № 438.

Ptisan
Pti'san. n.s. [ptisanne, Fr. πτισσανή.] A medical drink made of barley decocted with raisins and liquorice.
Thrice happy were those golden days of old, When dear as Burgundy the ptisans sold; When patients chose to die with better will, Than breathe and pay the apothecary's bill. Garth.
In fevers the aliments prescribed by Hippocrates, were ptisans and cream of barley. Arbuthnot.

Ptyalism
Pty'alism. n.s. [ptyalisme, Fr. πτυελισμὸς.] Salivation; effusion of spittle.

Ptysmagogue
Pty'smagogue. n.s. [πτύσμα and ἄγω.] A medicine which discharges spittle. Dict.

Puberty
Pu'berty. n.s. [puberté, Fr. pubertas, Lat.] The time of life in which the two sexes begin first to be acquainted.
The cause of changing the voice at the years of puberty seemeth to be, for that when much of the moisture of the body, which did before irrigate the parts, is drawn down to the spermatical vessels, it leaveth the body more hot than it was, whence cometh the dilatation of the pipes. Bacon.
All the carnivorous animals would have multiplied exceedingly, before these children that escaped could come to the age of puberty. Bentley's Sermons.

Pudding
Pu'dding. n.s. [potten, Welsh, an intestine; boudin, French; puding, Swedish.]

 A kind of food very variously compounded, but generally made of meal, milk, and eggs.
Sallads, and eggs, and lighter fareTune the Italian spark's guitar;And if I take Dan Congreve right,Pudding and beef make Britons fight. Prior.
 The gut of an animal.
He'll yield the crow a pudding one of these days; the king has kill'd his heart. Shakesp. Henry V.
As sure as his guts are made of puddings. Shakesp.
 A bowel stuffed with certain mixtures of meal and other ingredients.
Mind neither good nor bad, nor right nor wrong,But eat your puddings, slave, and hold your tongue. Prior.

Pun (noun)
Pun. n.s. [I know not whence this word is to be deduced: to pun, is to grind or beat with a pestle; can pun mean an empty sound, like that of a mortar beaten, as clench, the old word for pun seems only a corruption of clink?] An equivocation; a quibble; an expression where a word has at once different meanings.
 It is not the word, but the figure that appears on the medal: cuniculus may stand for a rabbit or a mine, but the picture of a rabbit is not the picture of a mine: a pun can be no more engraven, than it can be translated. Addison.
 But fill their purse, our poet's work is done, Alike to them by pathos, or by pun. Pope.

Pun (verb)
To Pun. v.n. [from the noun.] To quibble; to use the same word at once in different senses.
 The hand and head were never lost, of those Who dealt in doggrel, or who punn'd in prose. Dryden.
 You would be a better man, if you could pun like Sir Tristram. Tatler, № 57.

Pus
Pus. n.s. [Latin.] The matter of a well digested sore.
 Acrid substances break the vessels, and produce an ichor instead of laudable pus. Arbuthnot.

Pyramid
Pýramid. n.s. [pyramide, Fr. πύραμις, from πῦρ, fire; because fire always ascends in the figure of a cone.] In geometry, is a solid figure, whose base is a polygon, and whose sides are plain triangles, their several points meeting in one. Harris.
Know, Sir, that I will not wait pinion'd at your master's court; rather make my country's high pyramids my gibbet, and hang me up in chains. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleopatra.
An hollow crystal pyramid he takes,In firmamental waters dipt above,Of it a broad extinguisher he makes,And hoods the flames. Dryden.
Part of the ore is shot into quadrilateral pyramids. Woodw.

Pyramidal
Pyrámidal.Pyramídical.

adj. [from pyramid.] Having the form of a pyramid.


Of which sort likewise are the gems or stones, that are here shot into cubes, into pyramidal forms, or into angular columns. Woodward's Nat. Hist.
The pyramidical idea of its flame, upon occasion of the candles, is what is in question. Locke.

Pyramidical
Pyrámidal.Pyramídical.

adj. [from pyramid.] Having the form of a pyramid.


Of which sort likewise are the gems or stones, that are here shot into cubes, into pyramidal forms, or into angular columns. Woodward's Nat. Hist.
The pyramidical idea of its flame, upon occasion of the candles, is what is in question. Locke.

Pyramidically
Pyramídically adv. [from pyramidical.] In form of a pyramid.
Olympus is the largest, and therefore he makes it the basis upon which Ossa stands, that being the next to Olympus in magnitude, and Pelion being the least, is placed above Ossa, and thus they rise pyramidically. Broome's Notes on Odyssey.

Pyramis
Pýramis. n.s. A pyramid.
The form of a pyramis in flame, which we usually see, is merely by accident, and that the air about, by quenching the sides of the flame, crusheth it, and extenuateth it into that form, for of itself it would be round, and therefore smoke is in the figure of a pyramis reversed; for the air quencheth the flame, and receiveth the smoke. Bacon's Nat. Hist.

Pyre
Pyre. n.s. [pyra, Lat.] A pile to be burnt.
When his brave son upon the fun'ral pyreHe saw extended, and his beard on fire. Dryden.
With tender billet-doux he lights the pyre,And breathes three am'rous sighs to raise the fire. Pope.

Pyrites
Pyrítes. n.s. [from πῦρ.] Firestone.
Pyrites contains sulphur, sometimes arsenick, always iron, and sometimes copper. Woodward.

Pyromancy
Pýromancy. n.s. [πυρομαντία.] Divination by fire.
Divination was invented by the Persians, and is seldom or never taken in a good sense: there are four kinds of divination, hydromancy, pyromancy, aeromancy, geomancy. Ayliffe.

Pyrotechnical
Pyrotéchnical. adj. [pyrotechnique, Fr. from pyrotechnicks.] Engaged or skilful in fireworks.

Pyrotechnicks
Pyrotéchnicks. n.s. [πῦρ and τεχνὴ.] The act of employing fire to use or pleasure; the act of fireworks.

Pyrotechny
Pyrotéchny. n.s. [pyrotechnie, Fr.] The art of managing fire.
Great discoveries have been made by the means of pyrotechny and chymistry, which in late ages have attained to a greater height than formerly. Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Pyrrhonism
Pýrrhonism. n.s. [from Pyrrho, the founder of the scepticks.] Scepticism; universal doubt.

Pyx
Pyx. n.s. [pyxis, Latin.] The box in which the Romanists keep the host.
