Quab
Quab. n.s. [derived, by Skinner, from gobio, the Latin name.] A sort of fish.

Quack (noun)
Quack. n.s. [from the verb.]

 A boastful pretender to arts which he does not understand.
The change, schools and pulpits are full of quacks, jugglers and plagiaries. L'Estrange.
Some quacks in the art of teaching, pretend to make young gentlemen masters of the languages, before they can be masters of common sense. Felton on the Classicks.
 A vain boastful pretender to physick; one who proclaims his own medical abilities in publick places.
At the first appearance that a French quack made in Paris: a little boy walked before him, publishing with a shrill voice, "My father cures all sorts of distempers;" to which the doctor added in a grave manner, "The child says true." Addison.
 An artful tricking practitioner in physick.
Despairing quacks with cures fled the place,And vile attorneys, now an useless race. Pope.

Quack (verb)
To Quack. v.n. [quacken, Dutch, to cry as a goose.]

 To cry like a duck. This word is often written quaake to represent the sound better.
Wild-ducks quack where grasshoppers did sing. King.
 To chatter boastingly; to brag loudly; to talk ostentatiously.
Believe mechanick virtuosiCan raise them mountains in Potosi,Seek out for plants with signatures,To quack of universal cures. Hudibras, p. iii.

Quackery
Qua'ckery. n.s. [from quack.] Mean or bad acts in physick.

Quacksalver
Qua'cksalver. n.s. [quack and salve.] One who brags of medicines or salves; a medicaster; a charlatan.
Saltimbancoes, quacksalvers and charlatans deceive the vulgar in lower degrees; were Æsop alive, the piazza and the pont neuf could speak their fallacies. Brown.
Many poor country vicars, for want of other means, are driven to their shifts; to turn mountebanks, quacksalvers and empiricks. Burton on Melancholy.

Quadragesimal
Quadra'gesimal. adj. [quadragesimal, Fr. quadragesima, Latin.] Lenten; belonging to Lent; used in Lent.
I have composed prayers out of the church collects, adventual, quadragesimal, paschal, or pentecostal. Sanderson.

Quadrangle
Qua'drangle. n.s. [quadratus and angulus, Latin.] A square; a surface with four right angles.
                My choler being overblownWith walking once about the quadrangle,I come to talk. Shakesp. Henry VI.
The escurial hath a quadrangle for every month in the year. Howel.

Quadrangular
Quadra'ngular. adj. [from quadrangle.] Square; having four right angles.
Common salt shooteth into little crystals, coming near to a cube, sometimes into square plates, sometimes into short quadrangular prisms. Grew's Cosmol.
Each environed with a crust, conforming itself to the planes, is of a figure quadrangular. Woodward.
I was placed at a quadrangular table, opposite to the macebearer. Spectator, № 617.

Quadrant
Qua'drant. n.s. [quadrans, Lat.]

 The fourth part; the quarter.
In sixty-three years may be lost eighteen days, omitting the intercalation of one day every fourth year, allowed for this quadrant or six hours supernumerary. Brown.
 The quarter of a circle.
The obliquity of the ecliptick to the equator, and from thence the diurnal differences of the sun's right ascensions, which finish their variations in each quadrant of the circle of the ecliptick, being joined to the former inequality, arising from the excentricity, makes these quarterly and seeming irregular inequalities of natural days. Holder on Time.
 An instrument with which altitudes are taken.
Some had compasses, others quadrants. Tatler, № 81.
Thin taper sticks must from one center part;Let these into the quadrant's form divide. Gay.

Quadrantal
Quadra'ntal. adj. [from quadrant.] Included in the fourth part of a circle.
To fill that space of dilating, proceed in strait lines, and dispose of those lines in a variety of parallels: and to do that in a quadrantal space, there appears but one way possible; to form all the intersections, which the branches make, with angles of forty-five degrees only. Derham's Physico-Theol.

Quadrate (adjective)
Quadrate. adj. [quadratus, Latin.]

 Square; having four equal and parallel sides.

 Divisible into four equal parts.
The number of ten hath been extolled, as containing even, odd, long and plain, quadrate and cubical numbers. Brown.
Some tell us, that the years Moses speaks of were somewhat above the monthly year, containing in them thirty-six days, which is a number quadrate. Hakewill on Providence.
 [Quadrans, Lat.] Suited; applicable. This perhaps were more properly quadrant.
The word consumption, being applicable to a proper or improper consumption, requires a generical description, quadrate to both. Harvey on Consumptions.

Quadrate (noun)
Qua'drate. n.s.

 A square; a surface with four equal and parallel sides.
And 'twixt them both a quadrate was the base,Proportion'd equally by seven and nine;Nine was the circle set in heaven's place,All which compacted, made a goodly diapase. Fa. Queen.
Whether the exact quadrate or the long square be the better, is not well determined; I prefer the latter, provided the length do not exceed the latitude above one third part. Wotton.
                    The powers militantThat stood for heav'n, in mighty quadrate join'dOf union irresistible, mov'd onIn silence their bright legions. Milton.
To our finite understanding a quadrate, whose diagonal is commensurate to one of the sides, is a plain contradiction. More's Divine Dialogues.
 [Quadrat, Fr.] In astrology, an aspect of the heavenly bodies, wherein they are distant from each other ninety degrees, and the same with quartile. Dict.

Quadrate (verb)
To Qua'drate. v.n. [quadro, Lat. quadrer, Fr.] To suit; to be accommodated.
Aristotle's rules for Epick poetry, which he had drawn from his reflections upon Homer, cannot be supposed to quadrate exactly with the heroick poems, which have been made since his time; as it is plain, his rules would have been still more perfect, could he have perused the Æneid. Addison.

Quadratick
Qua'dratick. adj. Four square; belonging to a square. Dict.

Quadratick Equations
Quadratick equations. In algebra, are such as retain, on the unknown side, the square of the root or the number sought: and are of two sorts; first, simple quadraticks, where the square of the unknown root is equal to the absolute number given; secondly, affected quadraticks, which are such as have, between the highest power of the unknown number and the absolute number given, some intermediate power of the unknown number. Harris.

Quadrature
Quadra'ture. n.s. [quadrature, Fr. quadratura, Latin.]

 The act of squaring.
The speculations of algebra, the doctrine of infinites, and the quadrature of curves should not intrench upon our studies of morality. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.
 The first and last quarter of the moon.
It is full moon, when the earth being between the sun and moon, we see all the enlightened part of the moon; new moon, when the moon being between us and the sun, its enlightened part is turned from us; and half moon, when the moon being in the quadratures, we see but half the enlightened part. Locke.
 The state of being square; a quadrate; a square.
All things parted by th' empyreal bounds,His quadrature from thy orbicular world. Milton.

Quadrennial
Quadre'nnial. adj. [quadriennium, from quatuor and annus, Latin.]

 Comprising four years.

 Happening once in four years.

Quadrible
Qua'drible. adj. [from quadro, Lat.] That may be squared.
Sir Isaac Newton discovered a way of attaining the quantity of all quadrible curves analytically, by his method of fluxions, some time before the year 1688. Derham.

Quadrifid
Quadri'fid. adj. [quadrifidis, Lat.] Cloven into four divisions.

Quadrilateral
Quadrila'teral. adj. [quadrilatere, Fr. quatuor and latus, Lat.] Having four sides.
Tin incorporated with crystal, disposes it to shoot into a quadrilateral pyramid, sometimes placed on a quadrilateral base or column. Woodward on Fossils.

Quadrilateralness
Quadrila'teralness. n.s. [from quadrilateral.] The property of having four right lined sides, forming as many right angles. Dict.

Quadrille
Qua'drille. n.s. A game at cards. Dict.

Quadrin
Qua'drin. n.s. [quadrinus, Lat.] A mite; a small piece of money, in value about a farthing. Bailey.

Quadrinomical
Qua'drinomical. adj. [quatuor and nomen, Lat.] Consisting of four denominations. Dict.

Quadripartite
Qua'dripartite. adj. [quatuor and partitus, Lat.] Having four parties; divided into four parts.

Quadripartitely
Qua'dripartitely. adv. [from quadripartite.] In a quadripartite distribution.

Quadripartition
Quadriparti'tion. n.s. A division by four, or the taking the fourth part of any quantity or number. Dict.

Quadriphyllous
Quadriphy'llous. adj. [quatuor and φύλλον.] Having four leaves.

Quadrireme
Quadrire'me. n.s. [quadriremis, Lat.] A galley with four banks of oars.

Quadrisyllable
Quadrisy'llable. n.s. [quatuor and syllable.] A word of four syllables.

Quadrivalves
Quadriva'lves. n.s. [quatuor and valvæ, Lat.] Doors with four folds.

Quadrivial
Quadri'vial. adj. [quadrivium, Lat.] Having four ways meeting in a point.

Quadruped (adjective)
Quadru'ped adj. Having four feet.
The cockney, travelling into the country, is surprized at many actions of the quadruped and winged animals. Watts.

Quadruped (noun)
Quadru'ped. n.s. [quadrupede, Fr. quadrupes, Lat.] An animal that goes on four legs, as perhaps all beasts.
The different flexure and order of the joints is not disposed in the elephant, as in other quadrupeds. Brown.
The fang teeth, eye teeth, or dentes canini of some quadruped. Woodward on Fossils.
Most quadrupedes, that live upon herbs, have incisor teeth to pluck and divide them. Arbuthnot.
              The king of brutes,Of quadrupeds I only mean. Swift.

Quadruple
Quadruple. adj. [quadruple, Fr. quadruplus, Lat.] Fourfold; four times told.
A law, that to bridle theft doth punish thieves with a quadruple restitution, hath an end which will continue as long as the world itself continueth. Hooker.
The lives of men on earth might have continued double, treble or quadruple, to any of the longest times of the first age. Raleigh's History of the World.
Fat refreshes the blood in the penury of aliment during the winter, and some animals have a quadruple caul. Arbuthnot.

Quadruplicate
To Quadru'plicate. v.a. [quadrupler, Fr. quadruplico, Lat.] To double twice; to make fourfold.

Quadruplication
Quadruplica'tion. n.s. [from quadruplicate.] The taking a thing four times.

Quadruply
Quadru'ply. adv. [from quadruple.] To a fourfold quantity.
If the person accused maketh his innocence appear, the accuser is put to death, and out of his goods the innocent person is quadruply recompensed. Swift.

Quaere
Quære. [Latin.] Enquire; seek; a word put when any thing is recommended to enquiry.
Quære, if 'tis steeped in the same liquor, it may not prevent the fly and grub. Mortimer's Husbandry.

Quaff (verb active)
To Quaff. v.a. [of this word the derivation is uncertain: Junius, with his usual idleness of conjecture, derives it from the Greek, κυαφίζειν in the Eolick dialect used for κυαθίζειν. Skinner from go off, as go off, guoff, quoff, quaff. It comes from coeffer, Fr. to be drunk.] To drink; to swallow in large draughts.
He calls for wine; a health, quoth he, as ifH'ad been abroad carousing to his matesAfter a storm, quafft off the muscadel,And threw the sops all in the sexton's face. Shakesp.
                        I found the prince,With such a deep demeanour in great sorrow;That tyranny, which never quafft but blood,Would, by beholding him, hath wash'd his knifeWith gentle eye drops. Shakesp. Henry IV. p. ii.
On flow'rs repos'd, and with rich flow'rets crown'd,They eat, they drink, and in communion sweetQuaff immortality and joy. Milton's Par. Lost, b. v.

Quaff (verb neuter)
To Quaff. v.n. To drink luxuriously.
We may contrive this afternoon,And quaff carouses to our mistress' health. Shakesp.
Belshazzer, quaffing in the sacred vessels of the temple, sees his fatal sentence writ by the fingers of God. South.
Twelve days the gods their solemn revels keep,And quaff with blameless Ethiops in the deep. Dryden.

Quaffer (noun)
Qua'ffer. n.s. [from quaff.] He who quaffs.

Quaffer (verb)
To Qua'ffer. v.n. [a low word, I suppose, formed by chance.] To feel out. This seems to be the meaning.
Ducks, having larger nerves that come into their bills than geese, quaffer and grope out their meat the most. Derham.

Quaggy
Quaggy. adj. [from quagmire.] Boggy; soft; not solid. Ains.  This word is somewhere too in Clarissa.

Quagmire
Qua'gmire. n.s. [that is, quakemire.] A shaking marsh; a bog that trembles under the feet.
The fen and quagmire, so marish by kind,Are to be drained. Tusser.
Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels,And make a quagmire of your mingled brains. Shakesp.
Poor Tom! whom the foul fiend hath through ford and whirlpool, o'er bog and quagmire. Shakesp.
The wet particles might have easily ever mingled with the dry, and so all had either been sea or quagmire. More.
The brain is of such a clammy consistence, that it can no more retain motion than a quagmire. Glanvill's Sceps.

Quake (noun)
Quake. n.s. [from the verb.] A shudder; a tremulous agitation.
As the earth may sometimes shake,For winds shut up will cause a quake;So often jealousy and fearStol'n to mine heart, cause tremblings there. Suckling.

Quake (verb)
To Quake. v.n. [cƿacan, Saxon.]

 To shake with cold or fear; to tremble.
Dorus threw Pamela behind a tree; where she stood quaking like the partridge on which the hawk is even ready to seize. Sidney, b. i.
If Cupid hath not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou wilt quake for this. Shakespeare.
Do such business as the better dayWould quake to look on. Shakesp. Hamlet.
            Who honours not his father,Henry the fifth, that made all France to quake,Shake he his weapon at us, and pass by. Shakesp.
The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burnt at his presence. Nah. i. 5.
Son of man eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thy water with trembling and carefulness. Ezek. xii. 18.
In fields they dare not fight where honour calls,The very noise of war their souls does wound,They quake but hearing their own trumpets sound. Dryden.
 To shake; not to be solid or firm.
Next Smedley div'd; slow circles dimpled o'erThe quaking mud, that clos'd and op'd no more. Pope.

Quality
Qua'lity. n.s. [qualitas, Lat. qualitè, Fr.]

 Nature relatively considered.
These, being of a far other nature and quality, are not so strictly or everlastingly commanded in scripture. Hooker.
Other creatures have not judgment to examine the quality of that which is done by them, and therefore in that they do, they neither can accuse nor approve themselves. Hooker.
Since the event of an action usually follows the nature or quality of it, and the quality follows the rule directing it, it concerns a man, in the framing of his actions, not to be deceived in the rule. South.
The power to produce any idea in our mind, I call quality of the subject, wherein that power is. Locke.
 Property; accident.
In the division of the kingdom, it appears not which of the dukes he values most; for qualities are so weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice of either's moiety. Shak.
No sensible qualities, as light and colour, heat and sound, can be subsistent in the bodies themselves absolutely considered, without a relation to our eyes and ears, and other organs of sense: these qualities are only the effects of our sensation, which arise from the different motions upon our nerves from objects without, according to their various modification and position. Bentley.
 Particular efficacy.
O, mickle is the powerful grace, that liesIn plants, herbs, stones, and their true qualities. Shakesp.
 Disposition; temper.
To-night we'll wander through the streets, and noteThe qualities of people. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleopatra.
 Virtue or vice.
One doubt remains, said I, the dames in green,What were their qualities, and who is their queen? Dryden.
 Accomplishment; qualifications.
He had those qualities of horsemanship, dancing and fencing, which accompany a good breeding. Clarendon.
 Character.
The attorney of the dutchy of Lancaster partakes of both qualities, partly of a judge in that court, and partly of an attorney general. Bacon's Advice to Villiers.
We, who are hearers, may be allowed some opportunities in the quality of standers-by. Swift.
 Comparative or relative rank.
It is with the clergy, if their persons be respected, even as it is with other men; their quality many times far beneath that which the dignity of their place requireth. Hooker.
We lived most joyful, obtaining acquaintance with many of the city, not of the meanest quality. Bacon.
The masters of these horses may be admitted to dine with the lord lieutenant: this is to be done, what quality soever the persons are of. Temple.
 Rank; superiority of birth or station.
Let him be so entertained, as suits with gentlemen of your knowing to a stranger of his quality. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
 Persons of high rank. Collectively.
I shall appear at the masquerade dressed up in my feathers, that the quality may see how pretty they will look in their travelling habits. Addison's Guardian, № 112.
Of all the servile herd, the worst is he,That in proud dullness joins with quality,A constant critick at the great man's board,To fetch and carry nonsense for my lord. Pope.

Quatrain
Qua'train. n.s. [quatrain, Fr.] A stanza of four lines rhyming alternately: as,
 Say, Stella, what is love, whose fatal pow'r Robs virtue of content, and youth of joy? What nymph or goddess in a luckless hour Disclos'd to light the mischief-making boy. Mrs. Mulso.
 I have writ my poem in quatrains or stanza's of four in alternate rhyme, because I have ever judged them of greater dignity for the sound and number, than any other verse in use. Dryden.

Quean
Quean. n.s. [cƿan, Saxon, a barren cow; hoꞃcƿn, in the laws of Canute, a strumpet.] A worthless woman, generally a strumpet.
 As fit as the nail to his hole, or as a scolding quean to a wrangling knave. Shakesp.
 This well they understand like cunning queans, And hide their nastiness behind the scenes. Dryden.
 Such is that sprinkling, which some careless quean Flirts on you from her mop. Swift.

Queen (noun)
Queen. n.s. [cƿn, Saxon, a woman, a wife, the wife of a king.]

 The wife of a king.
                     He was lapt In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand Of his queen mother. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
 A woman who is sovereign of a kingdom.
 That queen Elizabeth lived sixty-nine, and reigned forty-five years, means no more than, that the duration of her existence was equal to sixty-nine, and the duration of her government to forty-five revolutions of the sun. Locke.
                 Have I a queen Past by my fellow rulers of the world? Have I refus'd their blood to mix with yours, And raise new kings from so obscure a race? Dryden.

Queen (verb)
To Queen. v.n. To play the queen.
A threepence bow'd would hire me, Old as I am, to queen it. Shakesp. Henry VIII.
Of your own state take care: this dream of mine, Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther, But milk my ewes and weep. Shakesp. Winter's Tale.

Queen-apple
Queen-Apple. n.s. A species of apple.
The queen-apple is of the summer kind, and a good cyder apple mixed with others. Mortimer's Husbandry.
Her cheeks with kindly claret spread, Aurora like new out of bed, Or like the fresh queen-apple's side, Blushing at sight of Phœbus' pride. Sidney, b. ii.

Queening
Quee'ning. n.s. An apple.
The winter queening is good for the table. Mortimer.

Queer
Queer. adj. [of this word the original is not known: a correspondent supposes a queer man to be one who has a quære to his name in a list.] Odd; strange; original; particular.
He never went to bed till two in the morning, because he would not be a queer fellow; and was every now and then knocked down by a constable, to signalize his vivacity. Spect.

Queerly
Quee'rly. adv. [from queer.] Particularly; oddly.

Queerness
Quee'rness. n.s. [from queer.] Oddness; particularity.

Queest
Que'est. n.s. [from questus, Lat. Skinner.] A ringdove; a kind of wild pigeon.

Quell (noun)
Quell. n.s. [from the verb.] Murder. Not in use.
             What can not we put upon His spungy followers, who shall bear the guilt Of our great quell. Shakesp. Macbeth.

Quell (verb active)
To Quell. v.a. [cƿllan, Saxon.] To crush; to subdue; originally, to kill.
                 What avails Valour or strength, though matchless, quell'd with pain, Which all subdues, and makes remiss the hands Of mightiest? Milton's Par. Lost, b. vi.
                 Compassion quell'd His best of man, and gave him up to tears A space; till firmer thoughts restrain'd excess. Milton.
This quell'd her pride, but other doubts remain'd, That once disdaining, she might be disdain'd. Dryden.
He is the guardian of the publick quiet, appointed to restrain violence, to quell seditions and tumults, and to preserve that peace which preserves the world. Atterbury.

Quell (verb neuter)
To Quell. v.n. To die. Spenser.

Queller
Que'ller. n.s. [from quell.] One that crushes or subdues.
             Hail son of the most high, Queller of Satan, on thy glorious work Now enter. Milton's Paradise Regain'd, b. iv.

Quelquechose
Que'lquechose. [French.] A trifle; a kickshaw.
From country grass to comfitures of court, Or city's quelquechoses, let not report My mind transport. Donne.

Queme
To Queme. v.n. [cƿman, Saxon.] To please. An old word. Skinner.

Quicksighted


Quidam
Qui'dam. [Latin.] Somebody.
For envy of so many worthy quidams, which catch at the garland, which to you alone is due, you will be persuaded to pluck out of the hateful darkness those so many excellent poems of yours, which lie hid, and bring them forth to eternal light. Spenser.

Quiddany
Qui'ddany. n.s. [cydonium, cydoniatum, Lat. quidden, German, a quince.] Marmalade; confection of quinces made with sugar.

Quiddit
Qui'ddit. n.s. [corrupted from quidlibet, Lat. or from que dit, Fr.] A subtilty; an equivocation. A low word.
Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer? where be his quiddits now? his quillets? his cases? and his tricks? Shak.

Quiddity
Qui'ddity. n.s. [quidditas, low Latin.]

 Essence; that which is a proper answer to the question, quid est? a scholastick term.
He could reduce all things to acts,And knew their natures and abstracts,Where entity and quiddity,The ghosts of defunct bodies fly. Hudibras, p. i.
 A trifling nicety; a cavil; a captious question.
Misnomer in our laws, and other quiddities, I leave to the professors of law. Camden's Remains.

Quinquennial
Quinque'nnial. adj. [quinquennis, Lat.] Lasting five years; happening once in five years.

Quit


Quob
To Quob. v.n. [a low word.] To move as the embryo does in the womb; to move as the heart does when throbbing.

Quodlibet
Quo'dlibet. n.s. [Latin.] A nice point; a subtilty.
He who reading on the heart,When all his quodlibets of artCould not expound its pulse and heat,Swore, he had never felt it beat. Prior.

Quodlibetarian
Quodlibeta'rian. n.s. [quodlibet, Lat.] One who talks or disputes on any subject. Dict.

Quodlibetical
Quodlibe'tical. adj. [quodlibet, Lat.] Not restrained to a particular subject: in the schools theses or problems, anciently proposed to be debated for curiosity or entertainment, were so called. Dict.

Quoif (noun)
Quoif. n.s. [coèffe, Fr.]

 Any cap with which the head is covered. See Coif.
            Hence thou sickly quoif,Thou art a guard too wanton for the head,Which princes, flesh'd with conquest, aim to hit. Shakesp.
 The cap of a serjeant at law.

Quoif (verb)
To Quoif. v.a. [coeffer, Fr.] To cap; to dress with a head-dress.
She is always quoiffed with the head of an elephant, to show that this animal is the breed of that country. Addison.

Quoiffure
Quoi'ffure. n.s. [coeffure, Fr.] Head-dress.
The lady in the next medal is very particular in her quoiffure. Addison on Ancient Medals.

Quoil
Quoil. n.s. See Coil.

Quoin
Quoin. n.s. [coin, Fr.]

 Corner.
A sudden tempest from the desert flewWith horrid wings, and thundered as it blew,Then whirling round, the quoins together strook. Sandys.
Build brick houses with strong and firm quoins or columns at each end. Mortimer's Husbandry.
 An instrument for raising warlike engines. Ainsworth.

Quoit (noun)
Quoit. n.s. [coete, Dutch.]

 Something thrown to a great distance to a certain point.
He plays at quoits well. Shakesp. Henry IV.
When he played at quoits, he was allowed his breeches and stockings. Arbuthnot and Pope.
 The discus of the ancients is sometimes called in English quoit, but improperly; the game of quoits is a game of skill; the discus was only a trial of strength, as among us to throw the hammer.

Quoit (verb active)
To Quoit. v.a. To throw.
Quoit him down, Bardolph, like a shove-groat shilling. Shak.

Quoit (verb neuter)
To Quoit. v.n. [from the noun.] To throw quoits; to play at quoits.  Dryden uses it to throw the discus. See the noun.
Noble youths for mastership should striveTo quoit, to run, and steeds and chariots drive. Dryden.

Quondam
Quo'ndam. [Latin.] Having been formerly. A ludicrous word.
This is the quondam king, let's seize upon him. Shakesp.
What lands and lordships for their owner knowMy quondam barber, but his worship now. Dryden.

Quook
Quook. preterite of quake. Obsolete.
Freely up those royal spoils he took,Yet at the lion's skin he inly quook. Spenser.

Quorum
Quo'rum. n.s. [Latin.] A bench of justices; such a number of any officers as is sufficient to do business.
They were a parcel of mummers, and being himself one of the quorum in his own country, he wondered that none of the Middlesex justices took care to lay some of them by the heels. Addison's Freeholder, № 44.

Quota
Quo'ta. n.s. [quotus, Lat.] A share; a proportion as assigned to each.
Scarce one in this list but engages to supply a quota of brisk young fellows, equipt with hats and feathers. Addison.

Quotation
Quota'tion. n.s. [from quote.]

 The act of quoting; citation.

 Passage adduced out of an authour as evidence or illustration.
He, that has but ever so little examined the citations of writers, cannot doubt how little credit the quotations deserve, where the originals are wanting. Locke.
He rang'd his tropes, and preach'd up patience,Back'd his opinion with quotations. Prior.

Quote
To Quote. v.a. [quoter, Fr.] To cite an authour or passage of an authour; to adduce by way of authority or illustration the words of another.
The second chapter to the Romans is here quoted only to paint the margent. Whitgifte.
St. Paul quotes one of their poets for this saying. Stillingfl.
He changed his mind, say the papers, and quote for it Melchior Adams and Hospinian. Atterbury.
He quoted texts right upon our Saviour, though he expounded them wrong. Atterbury.
He will, in the middle of a session, quote passages out of Plato and Pindar. Swift's Miscellanies.

Quoter
Quo'ter. n.s. [from quote.] Citer; he that quotes.
I proposed this passage entire, to take off the disguise which its quoter put upon it. Atterbury.

Quoth
Quoth. verb. imperfect. [this is only part of cƿoðan, Saxon, retained in English, and is now only used in ludicrous language.  It is used by Sidney irregularly in the second person.] Quoth I, say I or said I; quoth he, says he or said he.
Enjoying quoth you. Sidney, b. ii.
Shall we, quoth he, so basely brookThis paltry ass. Hudibras.

Quotidian (adjective)
Quoti'dian. adj. [quotidien, Fr. quotidianus, Latin.] Daily; happening every day.
Quotidian things, and equidistant henceShut in for man in one circumference. Donne.
Nor was this a short fit of shaking, as an ague, but a quotidian fever, always increasing to higher inflammation. King Charles.

Quotidian (noun)
Quoti'dian. n.s. [febris quotidiana, Lat.] A quotidian fever; a fever which returns every day.
If I could meet that fancymonger, I would give him some good counsel; for he seems to have the quotidian of love. Shakespeare.

Quotient
Quo'tient. n.s. [quotient, Fr. quoties, Latin.]
In arithmetick, quotient is the number produced by the division of the two given numbers the one by the other. Cocker.
To make all the steps belonging to the same pair of stairs of an equal height, they consider the height of the room in feet and inches, and multiply the feet by twelve, whose product, with the number of odd inches, gives the sum of the whole height in inches, which sum they divide by the number of steps they intend to have in that height, and the quotient shall be the number of inches and parts that each step shall be high. Moxon's Mechanical Exercise.
