Rabate
To Ra'bate. v.n. [rabattre, Fr.] In falconry, to recover a hawk to the fist again. Ainsworth.

Rabbet (noun)
Ra'bbet. n.s. [from the verb.] A joint made by paring two pieces so that they wrap over one another.
Having drove in the hooks, they set the rabbets of the door within the rabbets of the door-post. Moxon's Mechan. Exer.

Rabbet (verb)
To Ra'bbet. v.a. [rabatre, raboter, Fr.] To pare down pieces of wood so as to fit one another.
The rabbet plane is to cut part of the upper edge of a board straight or square down, that the edge of another board, cut down in the same manner, may join into the square of the first; and this lapping over of two boards is called rabbeting. Moxon's Mechanical Exercises.
The window frame hath every one of its lights rabbetted on its outside about half an inch into the frame, and all these rabbets, but that on the ground-fell, are groved square. Moxon's Mechanical Exercises.

Rabbi
Ra'bbi.Ra'bbin.

 n.s. A doctor among the Jews.


The Hebrew rabbins say, that nature hath given man, for the pronouncing of all letters, the lips, the teeth, the tongue, the palate and throat. Camden's Remains.
Be not ye called rabbi; for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren. Mat. xxiii. 8.

Rabbin
Ra'bbi.Ra'bbin.

 n.s. A doctor among the Jews.


The Hebrew rabbins say, that nature hath given man, for the pronouncing of all letters, the lips, the teeth, the tongue, the palate and throat. Camden's Remains.
Be not ye called rabbi; for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren. Mat. xxiii. 8.

Rabbit
Ra'bbit. n.s. [robbe, robbekin, Dutch.] A furry animal that lives on plants, and burrows in the ground.
I knew a wench married, as she went to the garden for parsly to stuff a rabbit. Shakesp. Taming of the Shrew.
A company of scholars, going to catch conies, carried one with them which had not much wit, and gave in charge, that if he saw any, he should be silent for fear of scaring of them; but he no sooner espied a company of rabbits, but he cried aloud, ecce multi cuniculi; which he had no sooner said, but the conies ran to their burrows; and he being checked by them for it, answered, who would have thought that the rabbits understood Latin? Bacon's Apophthegms.

Rabble
Ra'bble. n.s. [rabula, Lat. rabulari, low Lat.] A tumultuous croud; an assembly of low people.
Countrymen, will ye relent, and yield to mercy,Or let a rabble lead you to your deaths? Shakesp.
Go bring the rabble here to this place. Shakesp.
Of these his several ravishments, betrayings, and stealing away of men's wives, came in all those ancient fables, and all that rabble of Grecian forgeries. Raleigh.
The better sort abhors scurrility, And often censures what the rabble like. Roscommon.
That profane, atheistical, epicurean rabble, whom the whole nation so rings of, are not the wisest men in the world. South's Sermons.
To gratify the barbarous audience, I gave them a short rabble scene, because the mob are represented by Plutarch and Polybius with the same character of baseness and cowardice. Dryden's Preface to Cleomenes.
In change of government,The rabble rule their great oppressors fate,Do sov'reign justice and revenge the state. Dryden.
His enemies have been only able to make ill impressions upon the low and ignorant rabble, and to put the dregs of the people in a ferment. Addison's Freeholder, № 24.

Rabblement
Ra'bblement. n.s. [from rabble.] Croud; tumultuous assembly of mean people.
                      A rude rabblement,Whose like he never saw, he durst not bide,But got his ready steed, and fast away 'gan ride. Fa. Qu.
The rabblement houted, clap'd their chopt hands, and uttered a deal of stinking breath. Shakesp. Julius Cæsar.
There will be always tyrants, murderers, thieves, traitors, and other of the same rabblement. Camden's Remains.

Rabid
Ra'bid. adj. [rabidus, Lat.] Fierce; furious; mad.

Rabinet
Ra'binet. n.s. A kind of smaller ordnance. Ainsworth.

Race
Race. n.s. [race, Fr. from radice, Lat.]

 A family ascending.

 Family descending.
              He in a moment will createAnother world; out of man, a raceOf men innumerable, there to dwell. Milton.
Male he created thee, but thy consortFemale for race. Milton.
High as the mother of the gods in place,And proud like her of an immortal race. Dryden.
Hence the long race of Alban fathers come. Dryden.
 A generation; a collective family.
A race of youthful and unhandled colts,Fetching mad bounds. Shakesp. Merchant of Venice.
 A particular breed.
                      InsteadOf spirits malign, a better race to bringInto their vacant room. Milton.
In the races of mankind and families of the world, there remains not to one above another the least pretence to have the right of inheritance. Locke.
 Race of ginger. [rayz de gengibre, Spanish.] A root or sprig of ginger.

 A particular strength or taste of wine, applied by Temple to any extraordinary natural force of intellect.
Of gardens there may be forms wholly irregular, that may have more beauty than of others; but they must owe it to some extraordinary dispositions of nature in the feat, or some great race of fancy or judgment in contrivance. Temple.
 [Ras, Islandick.] Contest in running.
To describe races and gamesOr tilting furniture. Milton.
 Course on the feet.
The flight of many birds is swifter than the race of any beasts. Bacon.
 Progress; course.
It suddenly fell from an excess of favour, which many examples having taught them, never stopt his race till it came to a headlong overthrow. Sidney.
My race of glory run, and race of shame. Milton.
Their ministry perform'd, and race well run. Milton.
The great light of day yet wants to runMuch of his race though steep. Milton.
He safe return'd, the race of glory past,New to his friends embrace. Pope's Odyssey.
 Train; process.
An offensive war is made, which is unjust in the aggressor; the prosecution and race of the war carrieth the defendant to invade the ancient patrimony of the first aggressor, who is now turned defendant; shall he sit down, and not put himself in defence? Bacon.
The race of this war fell upon the loss of Urbin, which he re-obtained. Bacon.

Racehorse
Ra'cehorse. n.s. [race and horse.] Horse bred to run for prizes.
The reason Hudibras gives, why those, who can talk on trifles, speak with the greatest fluency, is, that the tongue is like a racehorse, which runs the faster the less weight it carries. Addison.

Racemation
Racema'tion. n.s. [racemus, Lat.] Cluster, like that of grapes.
A cock will in one day fertilitate the whole racemation or cluster of eggs, which are not excluded in many weeks after. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Racemiferous
Racemi'ferous. adj. [racemus and fero, Latin.] Bearing clusters.

Racer
Rácer. n.s. [from race.] Runner; one that contends in speed.
His stumbling founder'd jade can trot as highAs any other pegasus can fly;So the dull eel moves nimbler in the mud,Than all the swift-finn'd racers of the flood. Dorset.
A poet's form she plac'd before their eyes,And bade the nimblest racer seize the prize. Pope.

Raciness
Ráciness. n.s. [from racy.] The quality of being racy.

Rack (noun)
Rack. n.s. [racke, Dutch, from racken, to stretch.]

 An engine to torture.
Vex not his ghost; O let him pass! he hates himThat would, upon the rack of this rough world. Shakesp. King Lear.
Did ever any man upon the rack afflict himself, because he had received a cross answer from his mistress. Taylor.
Let them feel the whip, the sword, the fire,And in the tortures of the rack expire. Addison.
 Torture; extreme pain.
A fit of the stone puts a king to the rack, and makes him as miserable as it does the meanest subject. Temple.
A cool behaviour sets him on the rack, and is interpreted as an instance of aversion or indifference. Addison.
 Any instrument by which extension is performed.
These bows, being somewhat like the long bows in use amongst us, were bent only by a man's immediate strength, without the help of any bender or rack that are used to others. Wilkins's Mathematical Magick.
 A distaff; commonly a portable distaff, from which they spin by twirling a ball.
              The sisters turn the wheel,Empty the woolly rack, and fill the reel. Dryden.
 [Racke, Dutch, a track.] The clouds as they are driven by the wind.
That, which is now a horse, even with a thoughtThe rack dislimns, and makes it indistinctAs water is in water. Shakesp. Antony and Cleopatra.
                  The great globe itself,Yea, all, which it inherit, shall dissolve;And, like this insubstantial pageant, faded,Leave not a rack behind. Shakesp. Tempest.
We often see against some storm,A silence in the heav'ns, the rack stand still,The bold winds speechless, and the orb belowAs hush as death. Shakesp. Hamlet.
The winds in the upper region, which move the clouds above, which we call the rack, and are not perceived below, pass without noise. Bacon's Natural History.
As wint'ry winds contending in the sky,With equal force of lungs their titles try;They rage, they roar: the doubtful rack of heav'nStands without motion, and the tide undriv'n. Dryden.
 [hracca, the occiput, Saxon; racca, Islandick, hinges or joints.] A neck of mutton cut for the table.

 A grate.

 A wooden grate in which hay is placed for cattle.
Their bulls they send to pastures far,Or hills, or feed them at full racks within. May's Virgil.
The best way to feed cattle with it, is to put it in the racks, because of the great quantity they tread down. Mortimer.
        He bid the nimble hoursBring forth the steeds; the nimble hours obey:From their full racks the gen'rous steeds retire. Addison.
 Arrack; a spirituous liquor. See Arrack.

Rack (verb active)
To Rack. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To torment by the rack.
              Hold, O dreadful Sir,You will not rack an innocent old man. Dryden and Lee.
 To torment; to harrass.
Th' apostate angle, though in pain,Vaunting aloud, but rack'd with deep despair. Milton.
 To harrass by exaction.
The landlords there shamefully rack their tenants, exacting of them, besides his covenants, what he pleaseth. Spenser.
The commons hast thou rack'd; the clergy's bagsAre lank and lean with thy extortions. Shakesp.
He took possession of his just estate,Nor rack'd his tenants with increase of rent. Dryden.
 To screw; to force to performance.
They racking and stretching scripture further than by God was meant, are drawn into sundry inconveniences. Hooker.
The wisest among the heathens racked their wits, and cast about every way, managing every little argument to the utmost advantage. Tillotson's Sermons.
 To stretch; to extend.
Nor have I money nor commodityTo raise a present sum;Try what my credit can in Venice do,That shall be rack'd even to the uttermost. Shakesp.
 To defecate; to draw off from the lees. I know not whence this word is derived in this sense; rein, German, is clear, pure, whence our word to rinse; this is perhaps of the same race.
It is common to draw wine or beer from the lees, which we call racking, whereby it will clarify much the sooner. Bacon.
Some roll their cask about the cellar to mix it with the lees, and, after a few days resettlement, rack it off. Mortim.

Rack (verb neuter)
To Rack. v.n. [from the noun.] To stream as clouds before the wind.
Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun,Not separated with the racking clouds,But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky. Shakesp.

Rack-rent
Rack-rent. n.s. [rack and rent.] Rent raised to the uttermost.
Have poor families been ruined by rack-rents, paid for the lands of the church? Swift's Miscellanies.

Rack-renter
Rack-renter. n.s. [rack and renter.] One who pays the uttermost rent.
Though this be a quarter of his yearly income, and the publick tax takes away one hundred; yet this influences not the yearly rent of the land, which the rack-renter or undertenant pays. Locke.

Racket
Rácket. n.s. [of uncertain derivation; M. Casaubon derives it, after his custom, from ραχία, the dash of fluctuation against the shore.]

 An irregular clattering noise.
That the tennis court keeper knows better than I, it is a low ebb of linen with thee, when thou keepest not racket there. Shakesp. Henry IV. p. ii.
 A confused talk, in burlesque language.
Ambition hath removed her lodging, and lives the next door to faction, where they keep such a racket, that the whole parish is disturbed and every night in an uproar. Swift.
 [Raquette, Fr.] The instrument with which players strike the ball.  Whence perhaps all the other senses.
When we have matcht our rackets to these balls,We will in France play a set,Shall strike his father's crown into the hazard. Shakesp.
The body, into which impression is made, either can yield backward or it cannot: if it can yield backward, then the impression made is a motion; as we see a stroke with a racket upon a ball, makes it fly from it. Digby on the Soul.
He talks much of the motives to do and forbear, how they determine a reasonable man, as if he were no more than a tennis ball, to be tossed to and fro by the rackets of the second causes. Bramhall against Hobbs.

Racking
Rácking. n.s.
Racking pace of a horse is the same as an amble, only that it is a swifter time and a shorter tread; and though it does not rid so much ground, yet it is something easier. Far. Dict.

Rackoon
Ráckoon. n.s.
The rackoon is a New England animal, like a badger, having a tail like a fox, being cloathed with a thick and deep furr: it sleeps in the day time in a hollow tree, and goes out a-nights, when the moon shines, to feed on the sea side, where it is hunted by dogs. Bailey.

Racy
Rácy. adj. [perhaps from rayz, Spanish, a root.] Strong; flavorous; tasting of the soil.
Rich racy verses in which weThe soil, from which they come, taste, smell, and see. Cowley.
From his brain that Helicon distil,Whose racy liquor did his offspring fill. Denham.
The cyder at first is very luscious, but if ground more early, it is more racy. Mortimer's Husbandry.
          The hospitable sage, in signOf social welcome, mix'd the racy wine,Late from the mellowing cask restor'd to light,By ten long years refin'd, and rosy bright. Pope.

Rad (1)
Rad. the old pret. of read. Spenser.

Rad (2)
Rad.
Rad, red and rod, differing only in dialect, signify counsel; as Conrad, powerful or skilful in counsel; Ethelred, a noble counsellor; Rodbert, eminent for counsel: Eubulus and Thrasybulus have almost the same sense. Gibson.

Raddock
Ráddock, or ruddock. n.s. A bird.
                    The raddock would,With charitable bill, bring thee all this. Shakesp.

Radiance
Rádiance.Rádiancy.

n.s. [radiare, Lat.] Sparkling lustre; glitter.


By the sacred radiance of the sun,By all the operations of the orbs,Here I disclaim all my paternal care. Shakesp. K. Lear.
Whether there be not too high an apprehension above its natural radiancy, is not without just doubt; however it be granted a very splendid gum, and whose sparkles may somewhat resemble the glances of fire. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
                        The sonGirt with omnipotence, with radiance crown'dOf majesty divine. Milton.
A glory surpassing the sun in its greatest radiancy, which, though we cannot describe, will bear some resemblance. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
The rapid radiance instantaneous strikesTh' illumin'd mountain. Thomson's Spring.

Radiancy
Rádiance.Rádiancy.

n.s. [radiare, Lat.] Sparkling lustre; glitter.


By the sacred radiance of the sun,By all the operations of the orbs,Here I disclaim all my paternal care. Shakesp. K. Lear.
Whether there be not too high an apprehension above its natural radiancy, is not without just doubt; however it be granted a very splendid gum, and whose sparkles may somewhat resemble the glances of fire. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
                        The sonGirt with omnipotence, with radiance crown'dOf majesty divine. Milton.
A glory surpassing the sun in its greatest radiancy, which, though we cannot describe, will bear some resemblance. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
The rapid radiance instantaneous strikesTh' illumin'd mountain. Thomson's Spring.

Radiant
Rádiant. adj. [radians, Lat.] Shining; brightly sparkling; emitting rays.
There was a sun of gold radiant upon the top, and before, a small cherub of gold with wings displayed. Bacon.
Mark what radiant state she spreads,In circle round her shining throne,Shooting her beams like silver threads,This, this is she alone. Milton's Arcades.
Virtue could see to do what virtue wouldBy her own radiant light, though sun and moonWere in the flat sea sunk. Milton.
I see the warlike host of heaven,Radiant in glitt'ring arms and beamy pride,Go forth to succour truth below. Milton.

Radiate
To Rádiate. v.n. [radio, Lat.] To emit rays; to shine; to sparkle.
Though with wit and parts their possessors could never engage God to send forth his light and his truth; yet now that revelation hath disclosed them, and that he hath been pleased to make them radiate in his word, men may recollect those scatter'd divine beams, and kindling with them the topicks proper to warm our affections, enflame holy zeal. Boyle.
Light radiates from luminous bodies directly to our eyes, and thus we see the sun or a flame; or it is reflected from other bodies, and thus we see a man or a picture. Locke.

Radiated
Rádiated. adj. [radiatus, Lat.] Adorned with rays.
The radiated head of the phœnix gives us the meaning of a passage in Ausonius. Addison.

Radiation
Radiátion. n.s. [radiatio, Lat. radiation, Fr.]

 Beamy lustre; emission of rays.
We have perspective houses, where we make demonstrations of all lights and radiations, and of all colours. Bacon.


Should I say I liv'd darker than were true,Your radiation can all clouds subdue,But one; 'tis best light to contemplate you.

  Donne.



 Emission from a center every way.
Sound paralleleth in many things with the light, and radiation of things visible. Bacon's Natural History.

Radical
Rádical. adj. [radical, Fr. from radix, Latin.]

 Primitive; original.
The differences, which are secondary and proceed from these radical differences, are, plants are all figurate and determinate, which inanimate bodies are not. Bacon.
Such a radical truth, that God is, springing up together with the essence of the soul, and previous to all other thoughts, is not pretended to by religion. Bentley.
 Implanted by nature.
The emission of the loose and adventitious moisture doth betray the radical moisture, and carrieth it for company. Bac.
If the radical moisture of gold were separated, it might be contrived to burn without being consumed. Wilkins.
The sun beams render the humours hot, and dry up the radical moisture. Arbuthnot.
 Serving to origination.

Radicality
Rádicality. n.s. [from radical.] Origination.
There may be equivocal seeds and hermaphroditical principles, that contain the radicality and power of different forms; thus, in the seeds of wheat, there lieth obscurely the seminality of darnel. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Radically
Rádically. adv. [from radical.] Originally; primitively.
It is no easy matter to determine the point of death in insects, who have not their vitalities radically confined unto one part. Brown's Vulgar Errours.


These great orbs thus radically bright,Primitive founts, and origins of lightEnliven worlds deny'd to human sight.

  Prior.

Radicalness
Rádicalness. n.s. [from radical.] The state of being radical.

Radicate
To Rádicate. v.a. [radicatus, from radix, Lat.] To root; to plant deeply and firmly.
Meditation will radicate these seeds, fix the transient gleam of light and warmth, confirm resolutions of good, and give them a durable consistence in the soul. Hammond.
Nor have we let fall our pen upon discouragement of unbelief, from radicated beliefs, and points of high prescription. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
If the object stays not on the sense, it makes not impression enough to be remembered; but if it be repeated there, it leaves plenty enough of those images behind it, to strengthen the knowledge of the object: in which radicated knowledge, if the memory consist, there would be no need of reserving those atoms in the brain. Glanvill's Defence.

Radication
Radicátion. n.s. [radication, Fr. from radicate.] The act of fixing deep.
They that were to plant a church, were to deal with men of various inclinations, and of different habits of sin, and degrees of radication of those habits; and to each of these some proper application was to be made to cure their souls. Hammond's Fundamentals.

Radicle
Rádicle. n.s. [radicule, Fr. from radix, Lat.]
Radicle is that part of the seed of a plant, which, upon its vegetation, becomes its root. Quincy.

Radish
Rádish. n.s. [rædic, Sax. radis, raifort, Fr. raphanus, Lat.] A root.
The flower of the radish consists of four leaves, which are placed in the form of a cross; out of the flower-cup rises the pointal, which afterward turns to a pod in form of an horn, that is thick, spungy, and furnished with a double row of roundish seeds, which are separated by a thin membrane: there are five species; of that which is commonly cultivated in the kitchen-gardens for its root, there are several varieties; as the small topped, the deep-red, and the long topped stripped radish. Miller.

Radius
Rádius. n.s. [Latin.]

 The semi-diameter of a circle.

 A bone of the fore-arm, which accompanies the ulna from the elbow to the wrist.

Raff
Raff. v.a. To sweep; to huddle; to take hastily without distinction.
Their causes and effects I thus raff up together. Carew.

Raffle (noun)
Ráffle. n.s. [rafle, Fr. from the verb.] A species of game or lottery, in which many stake a small part of the value of some single thing, in consideration of a chance to gain it.
The toy, brought to Rome in the third triumph of Pompey, being a pair of tables for gaming, made of two precious stones, three foot broad, and four foot long, would have made a fine raffle. Arbuthnot on Coins.

Raffle (verb)
To Ráffle. v.n. [raffler, to snatch, Fr.] To cast dice for a prize, for which every one lays down a stake.
Letters from Hampstead give me an account, there is a late institution there, under the name of a raffling shop. Tatler.

Ram (noun)
Ram. n.s. [ꞃam, Saxon; ram, Dutch.]

 A male sheep; in some provinces, a tup.
 The ewes, being rank, turned to the rams. Shakesp.
 An old sheep-whistling rogue, a ram tender. Shakesp.
 You may draw the bones of a ram's head hung with strings of beads and ribbands. Peacham on Drawing.
 A ram their off'ring, and a ram their meat. Dryden.
 The ram, having pass'd the sea, serenely shines, And leads the year. Creech's Manilius.
 An instrument with an iron head to batter walls.
                              Antony, Let not the piece of virtue, which is set As the cement of our love, To keep it builded, be the ram to batter The fortress of it. Shakesp. Antony and Cleopatra.
 Judas calling upon the Lord, who without any rams or engines of war did cast down Jericho, gave a fierce assault against the walls. 2 Mac. xii. 15.

Ram (verb)
To Ram. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To drive with violence, as with a battering ram.
 Ram thou thy faithful tidings in mine ears, That long time have been barren. Shakesp.
 Having no artillery nor engines, and finding that he could do no good by ramming with logs of timber, he set one of the gates on fire. Bacon's Henry VII.
 The charge with bullet, or paper wet and hard stopped, or with powder alone rammed in hard, maketh no great difference in the loudness of the report. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 A mariner loading his gun, while he was ramming in a cartridge, the powder took fire. Wiseman's Surgery.
 Here many poor people roll in vast balls of snow, which they ram together, and cover from the sun shine. Addison.
 A ditch drawn between two parallel furrows, was filled with some sound materials, and rammed to make the foundation solid. Arbuthnot on Coins.
 To fill with any thing driven hard together.
 As when that devilish iron engine wrought In deepest hell, and fram'd by furies skill, With windy nitre and quick sulphur fraught, And ramm'd with bullet round ordain'd to kill. Fa. Queen.
              He that proves the king, To him will we prove loyal; till that time, Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world. Shakesp.
 They mined the walls, laid the powder, and rammed the mouth, but the citizens made a countermine. Hayward.
 This into hollow engines, long and round, Thick ramm'd, at th' other bore with touch of fire Dilated and infuriate, shall send forth Such implements of mischief, as shall dash To pieces. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. vi.
 Leave a convenient space behind the wall to ram in clay. Mortimer's Husbandry.

Ramekin


Raments


Ramequins


Ramification


Ramify (verb active)


Ramify (verb neuter)


Rammer


Rammish


Ramous
Ra'mous. adj. [from ramus, Latin.] Branchy; consisting of branches.
 Which vast contraction and expansion seems unintelligible, by feigning the particles of air to be springy and ramous, or rolled up like hoops, or by any other means than a repulsive power. Newton's Opticks.
 A ramous efflorescence, of a fine white spar, found hanging from a crust of like spar, at the top of an old wrought cavern. Woodward on Fossils.

Ramp (noun)
Ramp. n.s. [from the verb.] Leap; spring.
 He is vaulting variable ramps, In your despight, upon your purse. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
                             The bold Ascalonite Fled from his lion ramp, old warriors turn'd Their plated backs under his heel. Milton's Agonistes.

Ramp (verb)
To Ramp. v.n. [ramper, French; rampare, Italian; ꞃmpn, Saxon.]

 To leap with violence. Foaming tarr, their bridles they would champ, And trampling the fine element, would fiercely ramp. F. Q.
                  Out of the thickest wood A ramping lyon rushed suddenly,Hunting full greedy after savage blood. Fairy Queen.
 They gape upon me with their mouths; as a ramping and roaring lion. Psalm xxii.13.
 Upon a bull, that deadly bellowed, Two horrid lions rampt, and seiz'd, and tugg'd off. Chapm.
 Sporting the lion ramp'd; and in his paw Dandled the kid. Milton.
 To climb as a plant.
 Furnished with claspers and tendrils, they catch hold of them, and so ramping upon trees, they mount up to a great height. Ray on the Creation.

Rampallian
Rampa'llian. n.s. A mean wretch. Not in use.
Away you scullion, you rampallian, you fustilarian. Shak.

Random (adjective)
Ra'ndom. adj. Done by chance; roving without direction.
Virtue borrow'd but the arms of chance, And struck a random blow! 'twas fortune's work, And fortune take the praise. Dryden.

Random (noun)
Ra'ndom. n.s. [randon, Fr.] Want of direction; want of rule or method; chance; hazard; roving motion.
 Thy words at random argue thy inexperience. Milton.
 He lies at random carelessly diffus'd, With languish'd head unpropt, As one past hope abandon'd. Milton.
 Fond love his darts at random throws, And nothing springs from what he sows. Waller.
 The striker must be dense, and in its best velocity: the angle, which the missive is to mount by, if we will have it go to its furthest random, must be the half of a right one; and the figure of the missive must be such, as may give scope to the air to bear it. Digby.
 In the days of old the birds lived at random in a lawless state of anarchy; but in time they moved for the setting up of a king. L'Estrange's Fables.
 Who could govern the dependance of one event upon another, if that event happened at random, and was not cast into a certain relation to some foregoing purpose to direct. South.
 'Tis one thing when a person of true merit is drawn as like as we can; and another, when we make a fine thing at random, and persuade the next vain creature that 'tis his own likeness. Pope.

Rant (noun)
Rant. n.s. [from the verb.] High sounding language unsupported by dignity of thought.
Dryden himself, to please a frantick age,Was forc'd to let his judgment stoop to rage,To a wild audience he conform'd his voice,Comply'd to custom, but not err'd through choice;Deem then the people's, not the writer's sin,Almansor's rage, and rants of Maximin. Granville.
This is a stoical rant, without any foundation in the nature of man or reason of things. Atterbury's Preface.

Rant (verb)
To Rant. v.n. [randen, Dutch, to rave.] To rave in violent or high sounding language without proportionable dignity of thought.
Look where my ranting host of the garter comes; there is either liquor in his pate, or money in his purse, when he looks so merrily. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
Nay, an thoul't mouth, I'll rant as well as thou. Shak.
They have attacked me; some with piteous moans, others grinning and only shewing their teeth, others ranting and hectoring, others scolding and reviling. Stillingfleet.

Ranter
Ránter. n.s. [from rant.] A ranting fellow.

Rantipole (adjective)
Rántipole. adj. [this word is wantonly formed from rant.] Wild; roving; rakish. A low word.
What at years of discretion, and comport yourself at this rantipole rate! Congreve's Way of the World.

Rantipole (verb)
To Rántipole. v.n. To run about wildly.  It is a low word.
The eldest was a termagant imperious wench; she used to rantipole about the house, pinch the children, kick the servants, and torture the cats and dogs. Arbuthnot.

Ranula
Ránula. n.s. [Latin.]
Ranula is a soft swelling, possessing those salivals under the tongue: it is made by congestion, and its progress filleth up the space between the jaws, and maketh a tumour externally under the chin. Wiseman's Surgery.

Ranunculus
Ranúnculus. n.s. Crowfoot.
Ranunculuses excel all flowers in the richness of their colours: of them there is a great variety. Mortimer.

Rap (noun)
Rap. n.s. [from the verb.] A quick smart blow.
How comest thou to go with thy arm tied up? has old Lewis given thee a rap over thy fingers ends? Arbuthnot.

Rap (verb active)
To Rap. v.a. [from rapio extra se, Lat.]

 To affect with rapture; to strike with extasy; to hurry out of himself.
These are speeches of men, not comforted with the hope of that they desire, but rapped with admiration at the view of enjoyed bliss. Hooker.
Beholding the face of God, in admiration of so great excellency, they all adore him; and being rapt with the love of his beauty, they cleave inseparably for ever unto him. Hook.
What, thus raps you? are you well? Shakesp.
The government I cast upon my brother,And to my state grew stranger, being transportedAnd rapt in secret studies. Shakesp.
You're rapt in some work, some dedicationTo the great lord. Shakesp. Timon of Athens.
I'm rapt with joy to see my Marcia's tears. Addis. Cato.
It is impossible duly to consider these things, without being rapt into admiration of the infinite wisdom of the divine architect. Cheyne's Philosophical Principles.
Rapt into future times, the bard begun,A virgin shall conceive, a virgin bear a son! Pope.
Let heav'n seize it, all at once 'tis fir'd,Not touch'd, but rapt; not waken'd, but inspir'd. Pope.
 To snatch away.
He leaves the welkin way most beaten plain,And rapt with whirling wheels, inflames the skyen,With fire not made to burn, but fairly for to shyne. F. Q.
Underneath a bright sea flow'dOf jasper, or of liquid pearl, whereonWho after came from earth, sailing arriv'dWafted by angels, or flew o'er the lakeRap'd in a chariot drawn by fiery steeds. Milton.
Standing on earth, not rapt above the pole. Milton.

Rap (verb neuter)
To Rap. v.n. [hræppan, Saxon.] To strike with a quick smart blow.
            Knock me at this gateAnd rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate. Shakesp.
With one great peal they rap the door,Like footmen on a visiting day. Prior.
He was provoked in the spirit of magistracy, upon discovering a judge, who rapped out a great oath at his footman. Addison.

Rap and Rend
To Rap and rend. [more properly rap and ran; ræpan, Saxon, to bind, and rana, Islandick, to plunder.] To seize by violence.
Their husbands robb'd, and made hard shiftsT' administer unto their giftsAll they could rap and rend and pilfer,To scraps and ends of gold and silver. Hudibras, p. ii.

Rapacious
Rapácious. adj. [rapace, Fr. rapax, Lat.] Given to plunder; seizing by violence.
            Well may thy Lord, appeas'd,Redeem thee quite from death's rapacious claim. Milton.
                Shall this prize,Soon heighten'd by the diamond's circling rays,On that rapacious hand for ever blaze? Pope.

Rapture
Rápture. n.s.

 Ecstasy; transport; violence of any pleasing passion; enthusiasm; uncommon heat of imagination.
Musick, when thus applied, raises in the mind of the hearer great conceptions; it strengthens devotion, and advances praise into rapture. Addison's Spectator, № 406.
You grow correct, that once with rapture writ. Pope.
 Rapidity; haste.
              The wat'ry throng,Wave rowling after wave, where way they found,If steep, with torrent rapture; if through plainSoft-ebbing; nor withstood them rock or hill. Milton.

Raptured


Rareeshow


Rascalion


Rascally


Rasher


Rasp (verb active)


Ratiocinative


Rationalist


Ravage (verb active)


Rawboned


Rawhead


Re


Read (verb active)
To Read. v.a. pret. read, part. pass. read. [ræd, Saxon.]

 To peruse any thing written.
I have seen her take forth paper, write upon't, read it, and afterwards seal it. Shakesp. Macbeth.
The passage you must have read, though since slipt out of your memory. Pope.
If we have not leisure to read over the book itself regularly, then by the titles of chapters we may be directed to peruse several sections. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.
 To discover by characters or marks.
            An armed corse did lye,In whose dead face he read great magnanimity. Spenser.
 To learn by observation.
                  Those about herFrom her shall read the perfect ways of honour. Shakesp.
 To know fully.
            O most delicate fiend!Who is't can read a woman? Shakesp. Cymbeline.

Readmit


Reaffirmance


Realty
Reálty. n.s. [a word peculiar, I believe, to Milton.]
Realty means not in this place reality in opposition to show, but loyalty; for the Italian Dictionary explains the adjective reale by loyal. Pearce on Milton.
 O heaven, that such resemblance of the highest Should yet remain, where faith and realty Remain not. Milton's Paradise Lost, b. vi.

Ream
Ream. n.s. [rame, Fr. riem, Dutch.] A bundle of paper containing twenty quires.
 All vain petitions mounting to the sky, With reams abundant this abode supply. Pope.

Reanimate


Rearmouse


Rebeck


Recheat


Recipe


Recipient
Recipient. n.s. [recipiens, Latin.]

 The receiver; that to which any thing is communicated.
 Though the images, or whatever else is the cause of sense, may be alike as from the object, yet may the representations be varied according to the nature of the recipient. Glanvill.
 [Recipient, Fr.]  The vessel into which spirits are driven by the still.
 The form of sound words, dissolved by chymical preparation, ceases to be nutritive; and after all the labours of the alembeck, leaves in the recipient a fretting corrosive. D. of Pie.

Recitation


Recline (verb active)


Recluse


Reconduct


Recouch


Recriminate (verb neuter)


Rectangular


Rectory


Recubation


Recusant


Recuse


Red
Red. adj. [from the old Saxon, ꞃꝺ; rhud, Welsh. As the town of Hertford, Mr. Camden, in his Britannia, noteth, first was called, by the Saxons, Herudford, the rud ford, or the red ford or water; high Dutch, rot; from the Greek, ἔρυθρον; French, rouge; Italian, rubro; from the Latin, ruber. Peacham.] Of the colour of blood, of one of the primitive colours, which is subdivided into many; as scarlet, vermilion, crimson.
                Look I so pale. — Ay, and no man in the presence, But his red colour hath forsook his cheeks. Shakesp.
 Bring me the fairest creature northward born, To prove whose blood is reddest. Shakesp. Merch. of Ven.
 His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk. Gen. xlix. 12.
 Th' angelick squadron turn'd fiery red. Milton.
 If red lead and white paper be placed in the red light of the coloured spectrum, made in a dark chamber by the refraction of a prism, the paper will appear more lucid than the red lead, and therefore reflects the red making rays more copiously than red lead doth. Newton's Opticks.
 The sixth red was at first of a very fair and lively scarlet, and soon after of a brightet colour, being very pure and brisk, and the best of all the reds. Newton's Opticks.
             Why heavenly truth, And moderation fair, were the red marks Of superstition's scourge. Thomson's Winter.

Redberried Shrub Cassia


Redbreast


Reddle


Rede (noun)


Redeliver


Redoubted


Reducement


Reedify


Reedy


Reenforce


Reenter


Reentrance


Reestablish


Refect


Reflexibility


Reflexible


Refluent


Refractive


Refrigerant


Refrigerium
Refri'gerium. n.s. [Latin.] Cool refreshment; refrigeration.
It must be acknowledged, the ancients have talked much of annual refrigeriums, respites or intervals of punishment to the damned; as particularly on the festivals. South.

Refuse (noun)
Réfuse. n.s. That which remains disregarded when the rest is taken.
 We dare not disgrace our worldly superiours with offering unto them such refuse, as we bring unto God himself. Hook.
 Many kinds have much refuse, which countervails that which they have excellent. Bacon.
 I know not whether it be more shame or wonder, to see that men can so put off ingenuity, as to descend to so base a vice; yet we daily see it done, and that not only by the scum and refuse of the people. Government of the Tongue.
 Down with the falling stream the refuse run, To raise with joyful news his drooping son. Dryden.
 This humourist keeps more than he wants, and gives a vast refuse of his superfluities to purchase heaven. Addison.

Regal (noun)
Régal. n.s. [regale, Fr.] A musical instrument.
 The sounds, that produce tones, are ever from such bodies as are in their parts and ports equal; and such are in the nightingale pipes of regals or organs. Bacon.

Regale (noun)
Regále. n.s. [Latin.] The prerogative of monarchy.

Regale (verb)
To Regále. v.a. [regaler, Fr. regalare, Italian.] To refresh; to entertain; to gratify.
 I with warming puff regale chill'd fingers. Philips.

Regulate
To Régulate. v.a. [regula, Lat.]

 To adjust by rule or method.
 Nature, in the production of things, always designs them to partake of certain, regulated, established essences, which are to be the models of all things to be produced: this, in that crude sense, would need some better explication. Locke.
 To direct.
 Regulate the patient in his manner of living. Wiseman.
 Ev'n goddesses are women; and no wife Has pow'r to regulate her husband's life. Dryden.

Reigle
Reígle. n.s. [regle, Fr.] A hollow cut to guide any thing.
 A flood gate is drawn up and let down through the reigles in the side posts. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.

Religion
Relígion. n.s. [religion, Fr. religio, Lat.]

 Virtue, as founded upon reverence of God, and expectation of future rewards and punishments.
He that is void of fear, may soon be just,And no religion binds men to be traitors. Benj. Johnson.
One spake much of right and wrong,Of justice, of religion, truth and peaceAnd judgment from above. Milton.
If we consider it as directed against God, it is a breach of religion; if as to men, it is an offence against morality. South.
By her inform'd, we best religion learn,Its glorious object by her aid discern. Blackmore.
Religion or virtue, in a large sense, includes duty to God and our neighbour, but in a proper sense, virtue signifies duty towards men, and religion duty to God. Watts.
 A system of divine faith and worship as opposite to others.
The image of a brute, adorn'dWith gay religions, full of pomp and gold. Milton.
The christian religion, rightly understood, is the deepest and choicest piece of philosophy that is. More.
The doctrine of the gospel proposes to men such glorious rewards and such terrible punishments as no religion ever did, and gives us far greater assurance of their reality and certainty than ever the world had. Tillotson.

Rend
To Rend. v.a. pret. and pret. pass. rent. [rendan, Saxon.] To tear with violence; to lacerate.
                            Will you henceBefore the tag return, whose rage doth rendLike interrupted waters, and o'erbearWhat they are used to bear. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
He rent a lion as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand. Jud. xiv. 4.
I will not rend away all the kingdom, but give one tribe to thy son. 1 Kings xi. 13.
By the thund'rer's stroke it from th' root is rent,So sure the blows, which from high heaven are sent. Cowley.
What you command me to relate,Renews the sad remembrance of our fate,An empire from its old foundations rent. Dryden.
                Look round to seeThe lurking gold upon the fatal tree;Then rend it off. Dryden's Æneis.
It is not as much reason to say, when any monarchy was shattered to pieces, and divided amongst revolted subjects, that God was careful to preserve monarchical power, by rending a settled empire into a multitude of little governments. Locke.
When its way th' impetuous passion found,I rend my tresses, and my breast I wound. Pope.
From cloud to cloud the rending lightnings rage. Thoms.

Rent (noun 1)
Rent. n.s. [from rend.] A break; a laceration.
                                Thou viperHast cancell'd kindred, made a rent in nature,And through her holy bowels gnaw'd thy way,Through thy own blood to empire. Dryden.
He who sees this vast rent in so high a rock, how the convex parts of one side exactly tally with the concave of the other, must be satisfied, that it was the effect of an earthquake. Addison's Remarks on Italy.

Rent (noun 2)
Rent. n.s. [rente, Fr.]

 Revenue; annual payment.
                                Idol ceremony,What are thy rents? what are thy comings in?O ceremony shew me but thy worth! Shakesp. Hen. V.
I bought an annual rent or two,And live just as you see I do. Pope's Epist. of Horace.
 Money paid for any thing held of another.
Such is the mould, that the blest tenant feedsOn precious fruits, and pays his rent in weeds. Waller.
Folks in mudwall tenement,Present a peppercorn for rent. Prior.

Rent (verb active 1)
To Rent. v.a. [rather to rend.] To tear; to lacerate.
A time to rent, and a time to sew. Ecclus. iii. 7.

Rent (verb active 2)
To Rent. v.a. [renter, Fr.]

 To hold by paying rent.
When a servant is called before his master, it is often to know, whether he passed by such a ground, if the old man, who rents it, is in good health. Addison's Spectator.
 To set to a tenant.

Rent (verb neuter)
To Rent. v.n. [now written rant.] To roar; to bluster: we still say, a tearing fellow, for a noisy bully.
He ventur'd to dismiss his fear,That partings wont to rent and tear,And give the desperatest attackTo danger still behind its back. Hudibras, p. iii.

Rentable
Réntable. adj. [from rent.] That may be rented.

Rental
Réntal. n.s. [from rent.] Schedule or account of rents.

Renter
Rénter. n.s. [from rent.] He that holds by paying rent.
The estate will not be let for one penny more or less to the renter, amongst whomsoever the rent he pays be divided. Locke.

Reprimand (noun)
Reprima'nd. n.s. [reprimande, reprimende, Fr. from the verb.] Reproof; reprehension.
He inquires how such an one's wife or son do, whom he does not see at church; which is understood as a secret reprimand to the person absent. Addison's Spectator, №. 112.

Reprimand (verb)
To Reprima'nd. v.a. [reprimander, Fr. reprimo, Lat.] To chide; to check; to reprehend; to reprove.
Germanicus was severely reprimanded by Tiberius, for travelling into Egypt without his permission. Arbuthnot.

Reprint
To Repri'nt. v.a. [re and print.]

 To renew the impression of any thing.
 The business of redemption is to rub over the defaced copy of creation, to reprint God's image upon the soul, and to set forth nature in a second and a fairer edition. South.
 To print a new edition.
My bookseller is reprinting the essay on criticism. Pope.

Reprisal
Repri'sal. n.s. [represalia, low Lat. represaille, Fr.] Something seized by way of retaliation for robbery or injury.
The English had great advantage in value of reprisals, as being more strong and active at sea. Hayward.
Sense must sure thy safest plunder be, Since no reprisals can be made on thee. Pope.

Reprise
Repri'se. n.s. [reprise, Fr.] The act of taking something in retaliation of injury.
Your care about your banks infers a fear Of threat'ning floods and inundations near; If so, a just reprise would only be Of what the land usurp'd upon the sea. Dryden.

Reproach (noun)
Reproa'ch. n.s. [reproche, Fr. from the verb.] Censure; infamy; shame.
With his reproach and odious menace, The knight emboiling in his haughty heart, Knit all his forces. Fairy Queen.
If black scandal or foul-fac'd reproach Attend the sequel of your imposition, Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me. Shakesp.
Thou, for the testimony of truth, hast borne Universal reproach. Milton.

Reproach (verb)
To Reproa'ch. v.a. [reprocher, Fr.]

 To censure in opprobrious terms, as a crime.
 Mezentius, with his ardour warm'd His fainting friends, reproach'd their shameful flight, Repell'd the victors. Dryden's Æneis.
 The French writers do not burden themselves too much with plot, which has been reproached to them as a fault. Dry.
 To charge with a fault in severe language.
 If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. 1 Peter iv. 14.
                          That shame There sit not, and reproach us as unclean. Milton.

 To upbraid in general.
 These things are grievous; the upbraiding of house-room, and reproaching of the lender. Ecclus. xxix. 28.
 The very regret of being surpassed in any valuable quality, by a person of the same abilities with ourselves, will reproach our own laziness, and even shame us into imitation. Rogers.

Reproachable
Reproa'chable. adj. [reproachable, Fr.] Worthy of reproach.

Reproachful
Reproa'chful. adj. [from reproach.]

 Scurrilous; opprobrious.
 O monstrous! what reproachful words are these. Shakesp.
                 I have sheath'd My rapier in his bosom, and withal Thrust these reproachful speeches down his throat. Shakesp.
 An advocate may be punished for reproachful language, in respect of the parties in suit. Ayliffe's Parergon.
 Shameful; infamous; vile.
To make religion a stratagem to undermine government, is contrary to this superstructure, most scandalous and reproachful to christianity. Hammond's Fundamentals.
                 Thy punishment He shall endure, by coming in the fleshTo a reproachful life and cursed death. Milton's Par. Lost.

Reproachfully
Reproa'chfully. adv. [from reproach.]

	Opprobriously; ignominiously; scurrilously.
  Shall I then be us'd reproachfully? Shakesp. Hen. VI.
  I will that the younger women marry, and give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. 1 Tim. V 14.
 Shamefully; infamously.

Reprobate (adjective)


Reprobate (noun)


Reprobate (verb)


Reprobateness
Re'probateness. n.s. [from reprobate.] The state of being reprobate.

Reprobation
Reproba'tion. n.s. [reprobation, Fr. from reprobate.]

	The act of abandoning or state of being abandoned to eternal destruction.
 This sight would make him do a desperate turn;  Yea curse his better angel from his side, And fall to reprobation. Shakesp. Othello.
 Though some words may be accommodated to God's predestination, yet it is the scope of that text to treat of the reprobation of any man to hell-fire. Bramhall against Hobbs.
 God, upon a true repentance, is not so fatally tied to the spindle of absolute reprobation, as not to keep his promise, and seal merciful pardons. Maine.
 A condemnatory sentence.
  You are empower'd to give the final decision of wit, to put your stamp on all that ought to pass for current, and set a brand of reprobation on clipt poetry and false coin. Dryden.

Reproduce


Reptile (adjective)
Réptile. adj. [reptile, Lat.] Creeping upon many feet. In the following lines reptile is confounded with serpent.
 Cleanse baits from filth, to give a tempting gloss, Cherish the sully'd reptile race with moss. Gay.

Reptile (noun)
Reptíle. n.s. An animal that creeps upon many feet.
Terrestial animals may be divided into quadrupeds or reptiles, which have many feet, and serpents which have no feet. Locke's Elements of Natural Philosophy.
Holy retreat! sithence no female hither, Conscious of social love and nature's rites, Must dare approach, from the inferior reptile, To woman, form divine. Prior.

Republican (adjective)
Repúblican. adj. [from republick.] Placing the government in the people.

Republican (noun)
Repúblican. n.s. [from republick.] One who thinks a commonwealth without monarchy the best government.
These people are more happy in imagination than the rest of their neighbours, because they think themselves so; though such a chimerical happiness is not peculiar  to republicans. Add.

Republick
Repúblick. n.s. [respublica, Lat. republique, Fr.] Commonwealth; state in which the power is lodged in more than one.
 Those that by their deeds will make it known,     Whose dignity they do sustain;     And life, state, glory, all they gain, Count the republick's, not their own. Benj. Johnson.
 They are indebted many millions more than their whole republick is worth. Addison's State of the War.

Rest (noun)


Retrospect
Rétrospect. n.s. [retro and specio, Lat.] Look thrown upon things behind or things past.
 As you arraign his majesty by retrospect, so you condemn his government by second sight. Addison's Freeholder, № 9.

Revolution
Revolu'tion. n.s. [revolution, Fr. revolutus, Latin.]

 Course of any thing which returns to the point at which it began to move.
 On their orbs impose such restless revolution, day by day Repeated. Milton’s Paradise Lost, b. viii.
They will be taught by the diurnal revolution of the heavens. Watts’s Improvement of the Mind.
 Space measured by some revolution.
  At certain revolutions are they brought And feel by turns the bitter change. Milton.
Meteors have no more time allowed them for their mounting, than the short revolutions of the day. Dryden.
The Persian wept over his army, that within the revolution of a single age, not a man would be left alive. Wake.
 Change in the state of a government or country. It is used among us κατ' ἐξοχὴν, for the change produced by the admission of king William and queen Mary.

 Rotation in general; returning motion.
                             Fear  Comes thund’ring back with dreadful revolution On my defenseless head. Milton.

Rhabarbarate
Rhabárbarate. adj. [from rhabarbara, Lat.] Impregnated or tinctured with rhubarb.
 The salt humours must be evacuated by the sennate, rhabarbarate, and sweet manna purgers, with acids added, or the purging waters. Floyer on the Humours.

Rhabdomancy
Rhábdomancy. n.s. [ῥάβδος and μαντεία.] Divination by a wand.
Of peculiar rhabdomancy is that which is used in mineral discoveries, with a forked hazel, commonly called Moses's rod, which, freely held forth, will stir and play if any mine be under it. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Rhapsodist
Rhápsodist. n.s. [from rhapsody.] One who writes without regular dependence of one part upon another.
Ask our rhapsodist, if you have nothing but the excellence and loveliness of virtue to preach, and no future rewards or punishments, how many vicious wretches will you ever reclaim. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.

Rhapsody
Rhápsody. n.s. [ραψωδὶα; ῥάπτω, to sew, and ὠδὴ, a song.] Any number of parts joined together, without necessary dependence or natural connection.
Such a deed, as sweet religion makesA rhapsody of words. Shakesp. Hamlet.
This confusion and rhapsody of difficulties was not to be supposed in each single sinner. Hammond.
He, that makes no reflexions on what he reads, only loads his mind with a rhapsody of tales fit for the entertainment of others. Locke.
The words slide over the ears, and vanish like, a rhapsody of evening tales. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.

Rhetorical
Rhetórical. adj. [rhetoricus, Lat. from rhetorick.] Pertaining to rhetorick; oratorial; figurative.
 The apprehension is so deeply riveted into my mind, that rhetorical flourishes cannot at all loosen it. More.
 Because Brutus and Cassius met a blackmore, and Pompey had on a dark garmet at Pharsalia, these were presages of their overthrow, which notwithstanding are scarce rhetorical sequels; concluding metaphors from realities, and from conceptions metaphorical inferring realities again. Brown.
 The subject moral, logical, or rhetorical, which does not come under our senses. Watt's Improvement of the Mind.

Rhetorically
Rhetórically. adv. [from rhetorical.] Like an orator; figuratively; with intent to move the passions.

Rhetoricate
To Rhetóricate. v.n. [rhetoricor, low Lat. from rhetorick.] To play the orator; to attack the passions.
 'Twill be much more seasonable to reform, than apologize or rhetoricate; not to suffer themselves to perish in the midst of such solicitations to be saved. Decay of Piety.

Rhetorician (adjective)
Rhetorícian. adj. Suiting a master of rhetorick.
 Boldly presum'd with rhetorician pride, To hold of any question either side. Blackmore.

Rhetorician (noun)
Rhetorícian. n.s. [rhetorician, Fr. rhetor, Lat.] One who teaches the science of rhetorick.
 The ancient sophists and rhetoricians, which ever had young auditors, lived till they were an hundred years old. Bacon.
 'Tis the business of rhetoricians to treat the characters of the passions. Dryden's Dufresnoy.
 A man may be a very good rhetorician, and yet at the same time a mean orator. Baker's Reflections on Learning.

Rhetorick
Rhétorick. n.s. [ῥητορικὴ; rhetorique, Fr.]

 The act of speaking not merely with propriety, but with art and elegance.
 We could not allow him an orator, who had the best thoughts, and who knew all the rules of rhetorique, if he had not acquired the art of using them. Dryden's Dufresnoy.
 Of the passions, and how they are moved, Aristotle, in his second book of rhetorick, hath admirably discoursed in a little compass. Locke's Thoughts on Reading.
 Grammar teacheth us to speak properly, rhetorick instructs to speak elegantly. Baker's Reflections on Learning.
 The power of persuasion; oratory.
 The heart's still rhetorick, disclos'd with eyes. Shakesp.
 His sober lips then did he softly part, Whence of pure rhetorick whole streams outflow. Fairfax.
 Enjoy your dear wit and gay rhetorick, That hath so well been taught her dazling fence. Milton.

Rheum
Rheum. n.s. [ῥευμα; rheume, Fr.] A thin watery matter oozing through the glands, chiefly about the mouth. Quincy.
 Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes; For villainy is not without such a rheum; And he long traded in it, makes it seem Like rivers of remorse. Shakesp.
 You did void your rheum upon my beard. Shakesp.
 Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum, Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds. Shakesp.
 Each changing season does its poison bring, Rheums chill the winter, agues blast the spring. Prior.

Rheumatick
Rheúmatick. adj. [ῥευματικος; from rheum.] Proceeding from rheum or a peccant watry humour.
 The moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatick diseases do abound. Shakesp.
 The blood taken away looked very sizy or rheumatick. Floy.

Rheumatism
Rheúmatism. n.s. [ῥευματισμὸς; rheumatisme, Fr. rheumatismus, Lat.] A painful distemper supposed to proceed from acrid humours.
Rheumatism is a distemper affecting chiefly the membrana communis musculorum, which it makes rigid and unfit for motion; and it seems to be occasioned almost by the same causes, as the mucilaginous glands in the joints are rendered stiff and gritty in the gout. Quincy.
 The throtling quinsey 'tis my star appoints, And rheumatisms I send to rack the joints. Dryden.

Rheumy
Rheúmy. adj. [from rheum.] Full of sharp moisture.
                 Is Brutus sick? And will he steal out of his wholsome bed, To dare the vile contagion of the night? And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air, To add unto his sickness. Shakesp. Julius Cæsar.
 The South he loos'd, who night and horror brings, And fogs are shaken from his flaggy wings: From his divided beard two streams he pours; His head and rheumy eyes distil in show'rs. Dryden.

Rhinoceros
Rhinóceros. n.s. [ῥῖν and κέρας; rhinocerot, Fr.] A vast beast in the East Indies armed with a horn in his front.
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear, The arm'd rhinoceros, or Hyrcanian tyger; Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves Shall never tremble. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 If you draw your beast in an emblem, shew a landscape of the country natural to the beast; as to the rhinoceros an East Indian landscape, the crocodile, an Egyptian. Peacham.

Rhomb
Rhomb. n.s. [rhombe, Fr. rhombus, Lat. ῥομβος.] In geometry, a parallelogram or quadrangular figure, having its four sides equal, and consisting of parallel lines, with two opposite angles acute, and two obtuse: it is formed by two equal and right cones joined together at their base. Trevoux and Harris.
 Save the sun his labour, and that swift Nocturnal and diurnal rhomb suppos'd Invisible else above all stars, the wheel Of day and night. Milton.
 See how in warlike muster they appear, In rhombs and wedges, and half moons and wings. Milton.

Ribald
Ríbald. n.s. [ribauld, Fr. ribaldo, Italian.] A loose, rough, mean, brutal wretch.
 That lewd ribbald, with vile lust advanced, Laid first his filthy hands on virgin clean, To spoil her dainty corse so fair and sheen. Fairy Queen.
             Your ribauld nag of Egypt, The breeze upon her, like a cow in June, Hoists sails, and flies. Shakesp. Antony and Cleopatra.
                 The busy day, Wak'd by the lark, has rous'd the ribald crows, And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer. Shakesp.
 Ne'er one sprig of laurel grac'd these ribbalds,From slashing Bentley down to pidling Tibbalds. Pope.

Ric
Ric. n.s. Ric denotes a powerful, rich, or valiant man; as in these verses of Fortunatus:
Hilperice potens, si interpres barbarus adsit, Adjutor fortis hoc quoque nomen habet.Hil'pric Barbarians a stout helper term.
So Alfric is altogether strong; Æthelric, nobly strong or powerful: to the same sense as Polycrates, Crato, Plutarchus, Opimius. Gibson's Camden.

Rice
Rice. n.s. [oryza, Lat.] One of the esculent grains: it hath its grains disposed into a panicle, which are almost of an oval figure, and are covered with a thick husk, somewhat like barley: this grain is greatly cultivated in most of the Eastern countries. Miller.
Rice is the food of two thirds of mankind; it is kindly to human constitutions, proper for the consumptive, and those subject to hæmorrhages. Arbuthnot.
If the snuff get out of the snuffers, it may fall into a dish of rice milk. Swift's Directions to the Butler.

Ridicule (noun)
Rídicule. n.s. [ridicule, Fr. ridiculum, Lat.] Wit of that species that provokes laughter.
 Sacred to ridicule his whole life long, And the sad burthen of some merry song. Pope.
 Touch'd and sham'd by ridicule alone. Pope.
 Those, who aim at ridicule, Should fix upon some certain rule, Which fairly hints they are in jest. Swift's Miscellanies.

Rinse
To Rinse. v.a. [from rein, German, pure, clear.]

 To wash; to cleanse by washing.
                 This last costly treaty Swallow'd so much treasure, and like a glass Did break i' th' rinsing. Shakesp. Henry VIII.
 Whomsoever he toucheth, and hath not rinsed his hands in water, he shall be unclean. Lev. xv. 11.
 To wash the soap out of cloaths.
 They cannot boil, nor wash, nor rinse, they say, With water sometimes ink and sometimes whey, According as you meet with mud or clay, King.

Risibile
Rísible. adj. [risible, Fr. risibilis, Lat.]

 Having the faculty or power of laughing.
 We are in a merry world, laughing is our business; as if because it has been made the definition of man, that he is risible, his manhood consisted in nothing else. Gov. of Tongue.
 Ridiculous; exciting laughter.

Risibility
Risibílity. n.s. [from risible.] The quality of laughing.
 How comes lowness of stile to be so much the propriety of satyr, that without it a poet can be no more a satyrist, than without risibility he can be a man. Dryden.
 Whatever the philosophers may talk of their risibility, neighing is a more noble expression than laughing. Arbuth.

Rod


Room


Rouge
Rouge. n.s. [rouge, Fr.] Red paint.

Rough
Rough. adj. [hruh, hruhʒe, Saxon; rouw, Dutch.]

 Not smooth; rugged; having inequalities on the surface.
                        The fiendO'er bog or steep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare,Pursues his way. Milton.
Were the mountains taken all away, the remaining parts would be more unequal than the roughest sea; whereas the face of the earth should resemble that of the calmest sea, if still in the form of its first mass. Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
 Austere to the taste: as, rough wine.

 Harsh to the ear.
Most by the numbers judge a poet's song,And smooth or rough with them is right or wrong. Pope.
 Rugged of temper; inelegant of manners; not soft; coarse; not civil; severe; not mild; rude.
A fiend, a fury, pitiless and rough,A wolf; nay worse, a fellow all in buff. Shakesp.
Strait with a band of soldiers tall and roughOn him he seizes. Cowley's Davideis.
 Not gentle; not proceeding by easy operation.
He gave not the king time to prosecute that gracious method, but forced him to a quicker and rougher remedy. Clar.
Hippocrates seldom mentions the doses of his medicines, which is somewhat surprizing, because his purgatives are generally very rough and strong. Arbuthnot on Coins.
 Harsh to the mind; severe.
Kind words prevent a good deal of that perverseness, which rough and imperious usage often produces in generous minds. Locke.
 Hard featured; not delicate.
A ropy chain of rheums, a visage rough,Deform'd, unfeatur'd, and a skin of buff. Dryden.
 Not polished; not finished by art: as, a rough diamond.

 Terible; dreadful.
            Before the cloudy van,On the rough edge of battle ere it join'd,Satan advanc'd. Milton.
 Rugged; disordered in appearance; coarse.
Rough from the tossing surge Ulysses moves,Urg'd on by want, and recent from the storms,The brackish ooze his manly grace deforms. Pope.
 Tempestuous; stormy; boisterous.
            Come what come may,Time and the hour run through the roughest day. Shakesp.

Rove (verb active)
To Rove. v.a. To wander over.
            Roving the field, I chanc'dA goodly tree far distant to behold,Loaden with fruit of fairest colours. Milton's Par. Lost.
Cloacina as the town she rov'd,A mortal scavenger she saw, she lov'd. Gay.

Rove (verb neuter)
To Rove. v.n. [roffver, Danish, to range for plunder.] To ramble; to range; to wander.
Thou'st years upon thee, and thou art too fullOf the wars surfeits, to go rove with oneThat's yet unbruis'd. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
Faultless thou dropt from his unerring skill,With the bare power to sin, since free of will;Yet charge not with thy guilt his bounteous love,For who has power to walk, has power to rove. Arbuth.
If we indulge the frequent rise and roving of passions, we thereby procure an unattentive habit. Watts.
I view'd th' effects of that disastrous flame,Which kindled by th' imperious queen of love,Constrain'd me from my native realm to rove. Pope.

Rover
Róver. n.s. [from rove.]

 A wanderer; a ranger.

 A fickle inconstant man.

 A robber; a pirate.
This is the case of rovers by land, as some cantons in Arabia. Bacon's Holy War.
 At Rovers. Without any particular aim.
Nature shoots not at rovers: even inanimates, though they know not their perfection, yet are they not carried on by a blind unguided impetus; but that, which directs them, knows it. Glanvill's Sceps.
Providence never shoots at rovers: there is an arrow that flied by night as well as by day, and God is the person that shoots it. South's Sermons.
Men of great reading show their talents on the meanest subjects; this is a kind of shooting at rovers. Addison.

Rubble-stone
Rubble-stone. n.s.
Rubble-stones owe their name to their being rubbed and worn by the water, at the latter end of the deluge, departing in hurry and with great precipitation. Woodward.

Rubicund
Rúbicund. adj. [rubiconde, Fr. rubicundus, Lat.] Inclining to redness. Dict.

Ruddock
Rúddock. n.s. [rubecula, Lat.] A kind of bird.
Of singing birds, they have linnets, and ruddocks. Carew.

Ruffian (adjective)
Rúffian. adj. Brutal; savagely boisterous.
                Experienc'd ageMay timely intercept the ruffian rage,Convene the tribes. Pope's Odyssey.

Ruffian (noun)
Rúffian. n.s. [ruffiano, Italian; ruffien, Fr. a bawd; roffver, Danish, to pillage; perhaps it may be best derived from rough.] A brutal, boisterous, mischievous fellow; a cutthroat; a robber; a murderer.
Ruffian, let go that rude uncivil touch,Thou friend of an ill fashion! Shakesp. Two Gent. of Ver.
Have you a ruffian that will swear? drink? dance?Revel the night? rob? murder? Shakesp. Henry IV.
Sir Ralph Vane's bold answers termed rude and ruffian like, falling into years apt to take offence, furthered his condemnation. Hayward.
The boasted ancestors of these great men,Whose virtues you admire, were all such ruffians,This dread of nations, this almighty Rome,That comprehends in her wide empire's boundsAll under heaven, was founded on a rape. Addison's Cato.

Ruffian (verb)
To Rúffian. v.n. [from the noun.] To rage; to raise tumults; to play the ruffian. Not in use.
A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements;If it hath ruffian'd so upon the sea,What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them,Can hold the mortise. Shakesp. Othello.

Rule (noun)
Rule. n.s. [regula, Lat.]

 Government; empire; sway; supreme command.
         I am asham'd, that women Should seek for rule, supremacy, or sway, When they are bound to serve, love, and obey. Shakesp.
             May he live Ever belov'd, and loving may his rule be! Shakesp.
 A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame. Proverbs xvii. 2.
 There being no law of nature nor positive law of God, that determines which is the positive heir, the right of succession; and consequently of bearing rule, could not have been determined. Locke.
 This makes them apprehensive of every tendency, to endanger that form of rule established by the law of their country. Addison's Freeholder, № 52.
 Instruct me whence this uproar; And wherefore Vanoe, the sworn friend to Rome, Should spurn against our rule, and stir The tributary provinces to war. A. Philip's Briton.
 Sev'n years the traytor rich Mycenæ sway'd, And his stern rule the groaning land obey'd. Pope.
 An instrument by which lines are drawn.
 If your influence be quite dam'd up With black usurping mists, some gentle taper, Though a rush-candle from the wicker hole Of some clay habitation, visit us With thy long levell'd rule of streaming light. Milton.
 A judicious artist will use his eye, but he will trust only to his rule. South's Sermons.
 Canon; precept by which the thoughts or actions are directed.
 Adam's sin did not deprive him of his rule, but left the creatures to a reluctation. Bacon.
 This little treatise will furnish you with infallible rules of judging truly. Dryden's Dufresnoy.


 Know'st with an equal hand to hold the scale; See'st where the reasons pinch, and where they fail, And where exceptions o'er the general rule prevail.

  Dry.


 We profess to have embraced a religion, which contains the most exact rules for the government of our lives. Tillots.
 We owe to christianity the discovery of the most certain and perfect rule of life. Tillotson.
 Regularity; propriety of behaviour.
 Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him, Do call it valiant fury; but for certain, He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause Within the belt of rule. Shakesp. Macbeth.

Rule (verb active)
To Rule. v.a. [from the noun.]

 To govern; to controll; to manage with power and authority.
             It is a purpos'd thing To curb the will of the nobility; Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule, Nor ever will be rul'd. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
 Marg'ret shall now be queen, and rule the king; But I will rule both her, the king, and realm. Shakesp.
 A greater power now rul'd him. Milton.


 Rome! 'tis thine alone with awful sway, To rule mankind, and make the world obey, Disposing peace and war thy own majestick way.

   Dryden.



 To manage.
 He sought to take unto him the ruling of the affairs. 1 Mac.
 To settle as by a rule.
 Had he done it with the pope's license, his adversaries must have been silent; for that's a ruled case with the schoolmen. Atterbury.

Rule (verb neuter)
To Rule v.n. To have power or command.
 Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the saints. Hosea xi. 12.
 Thrice happy men! whom God hath thus advanc'd! Created in his image, there to dwell, And worship him; and in reward to rule Over his works. Milton's Paradise Lost. b. vii.
 We subdue and rule over all other creatures; and use for our own behoof those qualities wherein they excel. Ray.
 He can have no divine right to my obedience, who cannot shew his divine right to the power of ruling over me. Locke.

Run (verb active)


Run (verb neuter)
