Umber
Úmber. n.s.

 Umber is a sad colour; which grind with gum-water, and lighten it with a little ceruse, and a shive of saffron. Peacham.
 I'll put myself in poor and mean attire,And with a kind of umber smirch my face. Shakespeare.
Umbre is very sensible and earthy; there is nothing but pure black which can dispute with it. Dryden.
The umbres, ochres, and minerals found in the fissures, are much finer than those found in the strata. Woodward.
 A fish. [thymallus, Lat.]
The umber and grayling differ as the herring and pilcher do: but though they may do so in other nations, those in England differ nothing but in their names. Walt. Angler.

Umbered


Umbilical


Umbles
Umbles. n.s. [umbles, Fr.] A deer's entrails. Dict.

Umbo
Umbo. n.s. [Latin.] The point, or prominent part of a buckler.
 Thy words together ty'd in small hanks, Close as the Macedonian phalanx; Or like the umbo of the Romans, Which fiercest foes could break by no means. Swift.

Umbrage


Un
Un. A Saxon privative or negative particle answering to in of the Latins, and α of the Greeks, on, Dutch. It is placed almost at will before adjectives and adverbs. All the instances of this kind of composition cannot therefore be inserted; but I have collected a number sufficient, perhaps more than sufficient, to explain it.

Unabashed


Unable


Unabolished


Unacceptable


Unacceptableness


Unaccepted


Unaccessibleness


Unaccommodated


Unaccompanied


Unaccomplished


Unaccountable


Unappllicable


Unapprehended


Unapprehensive


Unapproached


Unapproved


Unapt


Unaptly


Unaptness


Unargued


Unarm


Unarmed


Unarraigned


Unarrayed


Unartful


Unartfully


Unartificially


Unasked


Unaspiring


Unassailable


Unassailed


Unassayed


Unbenign
Unbenígn. adj. Malignant; malevolent.
             To th' other five Their planetary motions, and aspects, In sextile, square and trine, and opposite, Of noxious efficacy; and when to join In synod unbenign. Milton's Par. Lost, b. x. l. 661.

Unbent
Unbént. adj.

 Not strained by the string.
 Apollo heard, and conqu'ring his disdain, Unbent his bow, and Greece inspir'd again. Dryden.
 Having the bow unstrung.
 Why hast thou gone so far, To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand, Th' elected deer before thee? Shakesp. Cymbeline.
 Not crushed; not subdued.
 But thou, secure of soul, unbent with woes, The more thy fortune frowns, the more oppose. Dryden.
 Relaxed; not intent.
 Be not always on affairs intent, But let thy thoughts be easy and unbent: When our mind's eyes are disengag'd and free, They clearer, farther, and distinctly see. Denham.

Unbeseeming
Unbeseéming. adj. Unbecoming.
 No emotion of passion transported me by the indignity of his carriage, to do or say any thing unbeseeming myself. K. Charles.
 Far be the spirit of the chace from them; Uncomely courage, unbeseeming skill. Thomson.

Unbesought
Unbesóught. adj. Not intreated.
 Lest heat should injure us, his timely care Hath, unbesought, provided; and his hands Cloath'd us unworthy; pitying while he judg'd. Milton.

Unbestowed
Unbestówed. adj. Not given; not disposed of.
 He had now but one son and one daughter unbestowed. Bacon.

Unbetrayed
Unbetráyed. adj. Not betrayed.
         Many being privy to the fact, How hard is it to keep it unbetray'd? Daniel's Civil War.

Unbewailed
Unbewáiled. adj. Not lamented.
     Let determin'd things to destiny Hold unbewail'd their way. Shakesp. Ant. and Cleopatra.

Unbuckle
To Unbúckle. v.a. To loose from buckles.
 We have been down together in my sleep, Unbuckling helms; fisting each other's throat, And wak'd half dead with nothing. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
 He that unbuckles this, till we do please To doff't for our purpose, shall hear a storm. Shakesp.
 His starry helm unbuckled, shew'd him prime In manhood, where youth ended. Milton's Par. Lost.
 All unbuckling the rich mail they wore, Laid their bright arms along the sable shore. Pope.

Unbuild
To Unbuild. v.a. To raze; to destroy.
 This is the way to kindle, not to quench; T' unbuild the city, and to lay all flat. Shakespeare.
 What will they then but unbuild His living temples, built by faith to stand; Their own faith, not another's? Milton's Par. Lost.

Unpredict
To Unpredíct. v.a. To retract prediction.
 Means I must use, thou say'st prediction else Will unpredict, and fail me of the throne. Milton.

Unpreferred
Unpreférred. adj. Not advanced.
 To make a scholar, keep him under, while he is young, or unpreferred. Collier on Pride.

Unpregnant
Unprégnant. adj. Not prolifick.
 This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant, And dull to all proceedings. Shakespeare.

Unprejudicate
Unprejúdicate. adj. Not prepossessed by any settled notions.
 A pure mind in a chaste body, is the mother of wisdom, sincere principles, and unprejudiciate understanding. Taylor.

Unquick
Unquíck. adj. Motionless.
 His senses droop, his steady eyes unquick; And much he ails, and yet he is not sick. Daniel's Civ. War.

Unquickened
Unquíckened. adj. Not animated; not ripened to vitality.
 Every fœtus bears a secret hoard, With sleeping, unexpanded issue stor'd; Which num'rous, but unquicken'd progeny, Clasp'd, and enwrapp'd, within each other lie. Blackmore.

Unrepining
Unrepíning. adj. Not peevishly complaining.
 Barefoot as she trod the flinty pavement, Her footsteps all along were mark'd with blood; Yet silent on she pass'd, and unrepining. Rowe.

Unrequested
Unrequésted. adj. Not asked.
 With what security can our embassadors go, unrequested of the Turkish emperor, without his safe conduct? Knolles.

Up (adverb)


Up (preposition)


Utmost (noun)
Útmost. n.s. The most that can be; the greatest power; the highest degree.
              What miscarries,Shall be the general's fault, though he performTo the utmost of a man. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
              I will be free,Even to the utmost as I please in words. Shakespeare.
Such a conscience, as has employed the utmost of its ability to give itself the best information, and clearest knowledge of its duty, that it can, is a rational ground for am an to build such an hope upon. South.
              Try your fortune. — —— I have to the utmost. Dost thou think me desperateWithout just cause? Dryden's All for Love.
A man, having carefully enquired into all the grounds of probability and unlikeliness, and done his utmost to inform himself in all particulars, may come to acknowledge on which side the probability rests. Locke.
The enemy thinks of raising threescore thousand men: let us perform our utmost, and we shall overwhelm them with our multitudes. Addison.

Utter (adjective)
Útter. adj. [utter, Saxon.]

 Situate on the outside, or remote from the center.
                    In my flightThrough utter and through middle darkness borne,I sung of chaos, and eternal night. Milton's P. Lost, b. iii.
 Placed without any compass; out of my place.
Pursue these sons of darkness; drive them outFrom all heav'n's bounds, into the utter deep. Milton.
 Extreme; excessive; utmost. This seems to be Milton's meaning here.
Such place eternal justice had prepar'dFor those rebellious; here their prison ordain'dIn utter darkness; and their portion setAs far remeov'd from god, and light of heav'n,As from the center thrice to th' utmost pole. Milton.
 Complete; irrevocable.
The parliament thought the utter taking it away, absolutely necessary for the preservation of the kingdom. Clarendon.
There could not be any other estimate made of the loss, than by the utter refusal of the auxiliary regiments of London and Kent to march farther. Clarendon, b. viii.
They feel fewer corporal pains, and are utter strangers to all those anxious thoughts which disquiet mankind. Atterbury.

Utter (verb)
To Útter. v.a. [from the adjective; to make publick, or let out; palam facere.]

 To speak; to pronounce; to express.
Men spake not with the instruments of writing, neither writ with the instruments of speech; and yet things recorded with the one, and uttered with the other, may be preached well enough with both. Hooker.
These very words I've heard him utter. Shakespeare.
There's more gold: but, sirrah,We say the dead are well.  Bring it to that,The gold I give thee will I melt, and pourDown thy ill-uttering throat. Shakespeare.
Conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood. Isa. lix. 13.
Shall not they teach thee and tell thee, and utter words out of their heart? Job viii. 10.
Who knows but his poor, bleeding heart,Amidst its agonies, remember'd Marcia,And the last words he utter'd, call'd me cruel! Addison.
 To disclose; to discover; to publish.
When do partial and sinister affections more utter themselves, than when an election is committed to many? Whitg.
Were it folly to be modest in uttering what is known to all the world? Raleigh.
I meant my words should not reach your ears; but what I utter'd was most true. Dryden's All for Love.
 To sell; to vend.
Such mortal drugs I have, but Mantua's lawIs death to any he that utters them. Shakesp. Rom. and Juliet.
They bring it home, and utter it commonly by the name of Newfoundland fish. Abbot's Descrip. of the World.
The Devonshire and Somersetshire grasiers feed yearly great droves of cattle in the north quarter of Cornwall, and utter them at home. Carew's Survey of Cornwall.
 To disperse; to emit at large.
To preserve us from ruin, the whole kingdom should continue in a firm resolution never to receive or utter this fatal coin. Swift.

Utterable
Útterable. adj. [from utter.] Expressible; such as may be uttered.

Utterance
Útterance. n.s. [from utter.]

 Pronunciation; manner of speaking.
He, with utt'rance grave, and countenance sad,From point to point discours'd his voyage. Fa. Queen.
 [Outrance, Fr.] Extremity; terms of extreme hostility.
    Of him I gather'd honour;Which he to seek of me again perforce,Behoves me keep at utterance. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
                  Mine eternal jewelGiv'n the common enemy of man,To make them kings; the seed of Banquo kings!Rather than so, come, fate, into the list,And champion me to th' utterance. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 Vocal expression; emission from the mouth.
'Till Adam, though no less than Eve abash'd,At length gave utterance to these words constrain'd. Milton.
Speaking is a sensible expression of the notions of the mind, by several discriminations of utterance of voice, used as signs, having by consent several determinate significancies. Holder.
There have been some inventions, which have been able for the utterance of articulate sounds, as the speaking of certain words. Wilkin's Math. Magick.
Many a man thinks admirably well, who has a poor utterance; while others have a charming manner of speech, but their thoughts are trifling. Watts.

Utterer
Útterer. n.s. [from utter.]

 One who pronounces.

 A divulger; a discloser.
Utterers of secrets he thence debarr'd;Babblers of folly, and blazers of crime. Fa. Queen.
 A seller; a vender.

Utterly
Útterly. adv. [from utter.] Fully; completely; perfectly. For the most part, in an ill sense.
God, whose property is to shew his mercies then greatest, when they are nearest to be utterly despaired. Hooker, b. iv.
Arguments taken from the authority of men, may not only so far forth as hath been declared, but further also be of some force in human sciences; which force, be it never so small, doth shew that they are not utterly naught. Hooker, b. ii.
All your int'rest in those territoriesIs utterly bereft you; all is lost. Shakesp. Hen. VI.
He was so utterly tired with an employment so contrary to his humour, that he did not consider the means that would lead him out of it. Clarendon, b. viii.
While in the flesh we cannot be utterly insensible of the afflictions that befal us. Atterbury.

Uttermost (adjective)
Úttermost. adj. [from utter.]

 Extreme; being in the highest degree.
                      Bereave me not,Whereon I live! thy gentle looks, thy aid,Thy counsel, in this uttermost distress. Milton.
 Most remote.
The land, from the uttermost end of the straits on Peru side, did go towards the south. Abbot's Descrip. of the World.

Uttermost (noun)
Úttermost. n.s. The greatest degree.
There needed neither promise nor persuasion to make her do her uttermost for her father's service. Sidney, b. ii.
He cannot have sufficient honour done unto him; but the uttermost we can do, we must. Hooker, b. i.

Uveous
Uvéous. adj. [from uva, Lat.]
The uveous coat, or iris of the eye, hath a musculous power, and can dilate and contract that round hole in it, called the pupil. Ray on the Creation.

Uvula
Uvúla. n.s. [uvula, Lat.] In anatomy, a round soft spongeous body, suspended from the palate near the foramina of the nostrils over the glottis. Dict.
By an instrument bended up at one end, I got up behind the uvula. Wiseman's Surgery.

Uxorious
Uxorious. adj. [uxorius, Lat.] Submissively fond of a wife; infected with connubial dotage.
Towards his queen he was nothing uxorious, nor scarce indulgent; but companionable and respective. Bacon.
That uxorious king, whose heart, though large,Beguil'd by fair idolatresses, fellTo idols foul. Milton's Paradise Lost.
          How would'st thou insult,When I must live uxorious to thy willIn perfect thraldom, how again betray me? Milton.

Uxoriously
Uxóriously. adv. [from uxorious.] With fond submission to a wife.
If thou art thus uxoriously inclin'dTo bear thy bondage with a willing mind,Prepare thy neck. Dryden's Juvenal.

Uxoriousness
Uxóriousness. n.s. [from uxorious.] Connubial dotage; fond submission to a wife.

V
V, Has two powers, expressed in modern English by two characters, V consonant and U vowel, which ought to be considered as two letters; but as they were long confounded while the two uses were annexed to one form, the old custom still continues to be followed.
U, the vowel, has two sounds; one clear, expressed at other times by eu, as obtuse; the other close, and approaching to the Italian u, or English oo, as obtund.
V, the consonant, has a sound nearly approaching to those of b and f.  With b it is by the Spaniards and Gascons always confounded, and in the Runick alphabet is expressed by the same character with f, distinguished only by a diacritical point.  Its sound in English is uniform.  It is never mute.

Vacancy
Vácancy. n.s. [from vacant.]

 Empty space; vacuity.
                                      How is'tThat thus you bend your eye on vacancy,And with th' incorporal air do hold discourse? Sh. Hamlet.
 Chasm; space unfilled.
The reader finds a wide vacancy, and knows not how to transport his thoughts to the next particular, for want of some connecting idea. Watt's Logick.
 [Vacance, Fr.] State of a post or employment when it is unsupplied.
In the vacancy of a bishop, the guardian of the spiritualities was summon'd to parliament in the bishop's room. Ayliffe.
 [Vacances, Fr.] Time of leisure; relaxation; intermission; time unengaged.
If, sometimes, each other's eyes we meet,Those little vacancies from toil are sweet. Dryd. St. of In.
The daily intervals of time and vacancies from necessary labour, together with the one day in seven in the christian world, allow sufficient time. Watts.
 Listlessness; emptiness of thought.
When alone, or in company, they sit still without doing any thing, I like it worse; for all dispositions to idleness or vacancy, even before they are habits, are dangerous. Wotton.

Vacant
Vácant. adj. [vacant, Fr. vacans, Latin.]

 Empty; unfilled; void.
Why should the air so impetuously rush into the cavity of the receiver, if there were before no vacant room to receive it. Boyle's Works.
A better race to bring into their vacant room. Milton.
 Free; unencumbered; uncrouded.
Religion is the interest of all; but philosophy of those only that are at leisure, and vacant from the affairs of the world. More's Divine Dialogues.
A very little part of our life is so vacant from uneasinesses, as to leave us free to the attraction of remoter good. Locke.
 Not filled by an incumbent, or possessor.
Lest the fiend invade vacant possession. Milton.
Others when they allowed the throne vacant, thought the succession should immediately go to the next heir. Swift.
 Being at leisure; disengaged.
They which have the government, scatter the army abroad, and place them in villages to take their victuals of them, as such vacant times as they lie not in camp. Spenser.
Sir John Berkley was the more vacant for that service, by the reduction of Barnstaple. Clarendon.
The memory relieves the mind in her vacant moments, and prevents any chasms of thought, by ideas of what is past. Addison.
 Thoughtless; empty of thought; not busy.
              The wretched slave,Who, with a body fill'd, and vacant mind,Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread. Shakes.
The duke had a pleasant and vacant face, proceeding from a singular assurance in his temper. Wotton's Buck.
Some vain amusement of a vacant soul. Irene.

Vacate
To Vácate. v.a. [vaco, Latin.]

 To annul; to make void; to make of no authority.
That after-act vacating the authority of the precedent, tells the world that some remorse touched even Strafford's most implacable enemies. K. Charles.
 To make vacant; to quit possession of.

 To defeat; to put an end to.
                    He vacates my revenge;For while he trusts me, 'twere so base a partTo fawn, and yet betray. Dryden.

Vacation
Vacátion. n.s. [vacation, Fr. vacatio, Latin.]

 Intermission of jurdical proceedings, or any other stated employments; recess of courts or senates.
Vacation is all that time which passes between term and term, at London. Cowel.
As these clerks want not their full task of labour during the open term, so there is for them whereupon to be occupied in the vacation only. Bacon Off. of Alienat.
 Leisure; freedom from trouble or perplexity.
Benefit of peace, quiet, and vacation for piety, have rendered it necessary in every christian commonwealth, by laws to secure propriety. Hammond's Fundamentals.

Vaccary
Váccary. n.s. [vacca, Latin.] A cow-house; a cow-pasture. Bailey.

Vacillancy
Vacíllancy. n.s. [vacillans, from vacillo, Lat. vacillant, Fr.] A state of wavering; fluctuation; inconstancy. Not much in use.
I deny that all mutability implies imperfection, though some does, as that vacillancy in human souls, and such mutations as are found in corporeal matter. More's Divine Dialogues.

Vacillation
Vacillátion. n.s. [vacillatio, from vacillo, Lat. vacillatior, Fr.] The act or state of reeling or staggering.
The muscles keep the body upright, and prevent its falling, by readily assisting against every vacillation. Derham.

Vacuation
Vacuátion. n.s. [vacuus, Latin.] The act of emptying. Dict.

Vacuist
Vácuist. n.s. [from vacuum.] A philosopher that holds a vacuum: opposed to a plenist.
Those spaces, which the vacuists would have to be empty, because they are manifestly devoid of air, the plenists do not prove replenished with subtle matter. Boyle.

Vacuity
Vacúity. n.s. [vacuitas, from vacuus, Lat. vacuité, Fr.]

 Emptiness; state of being unfilled.
Hunger is such a state of vacuity, as to require a fresh supply of aliment. Arbuthnot.
 Space unfilled; space unoccupied.
In filling up vacuities, turning out shadows and ceremonies, by explicit prescription of substantial duties, which those shadows did obscurely represent. Hammond's Fund.
          He, that seat soon failing, meetsA vast vacuity. Milton.
Body and space are quite different things, and a vacuity is interspersed among the particles of matter. Bentley.
God, who alone can answer all our longings; and fill every vacuity of our soul, should intirely posses our heart. Rogers.
 Inanity; want of reality.
The soul is seen, like other things, in the mirror of its effects: but if they'll run behind the glass to catch at it, their expectations will meet with vacuity and emptiness. Glanv.

Vacuous
Va'cuous. adj. [vacuus, Lat. vacuë, Fr.] Empty; unfilled.
Boundless the deep, because I AM who fillInfinitude: nor vacuous the space. Milton's Par. Lost.

Vacuum
Vácuum. n.s. [Latin.] Space unoccupied by matter.
Our enquiries about vacuum, or space and atoms, will shew us some good practical lessons. Watts.

Vade
Vade. v.n. [vado, Latin.] To vanish; to pass away. Spenser. A word used in poetry, but not received.
Be ever gloried here thy sovereign name,That thou may'st smile on all which thou hast made;Whose frown alone can shake this earthly frame,And at whose touch the hills in smoak shall vade. Wotton.

Vagabond (adjective)
Vágabond. adj. [vagabundus, low Latin. vagabond, Fr.]

 Wandering without any settled habitation; wanting a home.
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death;Vagabond exile: yet I wou'd not buyTheir mercy at the price of one fair word. Shakes. Cor.
A vagabond debtor may be cited in whatever place or jurisdiction he is found. Ayliffe's Parergon.
 Wandering; vagrant.
            This common body,Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,Goes to, and back, lacquying the varying tide. Shakes.
        Their prayers by envious windsBlown vagabond or frustrate. Milton.

Vagabond (noun)
Vágabond. n.s. [from the adj.]

 A vagrant; a wanderer, commonly, in a sense of reproach.
We call those people wanderers and vagabonds, that have no dwelling-place. Raleigh's Hist. of the World.
Reduced, like Hannibal, to seek reliefFrom court to court, and wander up and downA vagabond in Afric. Addison's Cato.
 One that wanders illegally, without a settled habitation.
Vagabond is a person without a home. Watts.

Vagary
Vagáry. n.s. [from vagus, Latin.] A wild freak; a capricious frolick.
            They chang'd their minds,Flew off, and into strange vagaries fell,As they wou'd dance. Milton's Par. Lost, b. vi. l. 613.
Would your son engage is some frolic, or take a vagary, were it not better he should do it with, than without your knowledge? Locke on Education, §97.

Vaginopennous
Vaginopénnous. n.s. [vagina and penna, Latin.] Sheath-winged; having the wings covered with hard cases.

Vagous
Vagóus. adj. [vagus, Lat. vague, Fr.] Wandering; unsettled. Not in use.
Such as were born and begot of a single woman, thro' a vagous lust, were called Sporii. Ayliffe.

Vagrancy
Vágrancy. n.s. [from vagrant.] A state of wandering; unsettled condition.

Vagrant (adjective)
Vágrant. adj. Wandering; unsettled; vagabond; unfixed in place.
Do not oppose popular mistakes and surmises, or vagrant and fictitious stories. More's Divine Dialogues.
Take good heed what men will think and say;That beauteous Emma vagrant courses took,Her father's house, and civil life forsook. Prior.
Her lips no living bard, I weet,May say how red, how round, how sweet;Old Homer could only inditeTheir vagrant grace, and soft delight:They stand recorded in his book,When Helen smil'd, and Hebe spoke. Prior.

Vagrant (noun)
Vágrant. n.s. [vagant, Fr.] A sturdy beggar; wanderer; vagabond; man unsettled in habitation. In an ill sense.
Vagrants and outlaws shall offend thy view,Train'd to assault, and disciplin'd to kill. Prior.
You'll not the progress of your atoms stay,Nor to collect the vagrants find a way. Blackmore.
To relieve the helpless poor; to make sturdy vagrants relieve themselves; to hinder idle hands from being mischievous, are things of evident use. F. Atterbury.
                Ye vagrants of the sky,To right or left, unheeded, take your way. Pope.

Vague
Vague. adj. [vague, Fr. vagus, Latin.]

 Wandering; vagrant; vagabond.
Gray encouraged his men to set upon the vague villains, good neither to live peaceably, nor to fight. Hayward.
 Unfixed; unsettled; undetermined; indefinite.
The perception of being, or not being, belongs no more to these vague ideas, signified by the terms, whatsoever and thing, than it does to any other ideas. Locke.

Vail (noun)
Vail. n.s. [voile, French. This word is now frequently written veil, from velum, Latin; and the verb veil, from the verb velo; but the old orthography commonly derived it, I believe rightly, from the French.]

 A curtain; a cover thrown over any thing to be concealed.
While they supposed to lie hid in their secret sins, they were scattered under a dark vail of forgetfulness. Wisdom.
 A part of female dress, by which the face and part of the shape is concealed.

 Money given to servants.  It is commonly used in the plural. See Vale.

Vail (verb active 1)
To Vail. v.a. To cover. See Veil.

Vail (verb active 2)
To Vail. v.a. [avaller le bonet, French.]

 To let fall; to suffer to descend.
They stiffly refused to vail their bonnets, which is reckoned intollerable contempt by seafarers. Carew.
        The virgin 'gan her beavoir vale,And thank'd him first, and thus began her tale. Fairfax.
 To let fall in token of respect.
Certain of the Turks gallies, which would not vail their top-sails, the Venetians fiercely assailed. Knolles's Hist.
They had not the ceremony of veiling the bonnet in salutations; for, in medals, they still have it on their heads. Add.
 To fall; to let sink in fear, or for any other interest.
                That furious Scot,'Gan vail his stomach, and did grace the shameOf those that turn'd their backs. Shakespeare.

Vail (verb neuter)
To Vail. v.n. To yield; to give place; to shew respect by yielding.  In this sense, the modern writers have ignorantly written veil.
Thy convenience must veil to thy neighbour's necessity; and thy very necessities must yield to thy neighbour's extremity. South.

Vain
Vain. adj. [vain, Fr. vanus, Latin.]

 Fruitless; ineffectual.
                Let no man speak againTo alter this; for counsel is but vain. Shakespeare.
            Vain is the force of man,To crush the pillars which the pile sustain. Dryden.
 Empty; unreal; shadowy.
Before the passage horrid Hydra stands,Gorgons, Geryon with his triple frame,And vain chimera, vomits empty flame. Dryden's Æn.
Unmov'd his eyes, and wet his beard appears;And shedding vain, but seeming real tears. Dryden.
 Meanly proud; proud of petty things.
No folly like vain glory; nor any thing more ridiculous than for a vain man to be still boasting of himself. L'Estran.
He wav'd a torch aloft, and, madly vain,Sought godlike worship from a servile train. Dryden.
        The minstrels play'd on ev'ry side,Vain of their art, and for the mastery vy'd. Dryden.
To be vain is rather a mark of humility than pride. Vain men delight in telling what honours have been done them, what great company they have kept, and the like; by which they plainly confess, that these honours were more than their due, and such as their friends would not believe, if they had not been told: whereas a man truly proud, thinks the honours below his merit, and scorns to boast. Swift.
Ah friend! to dazzle let the vain design;To raise the thought, and touch the heart, be thine. Pope.
View this marble, and be vain no more. Pope.
 Shewy; ostentatious.
Load some vain church with old theatrick state. Pope.
 Idle; worthless; unimportant.
Both all things vain, and all who in vain thingsBuilt their fond hopes of glory, or lasting face,Or happiness. Milton's Paradise Lost.
He heard a grave philosopher maintain,That all the actions of our life were vain,Which with our sense of pleasure not conspir'd. Denham.
To your vain answer will you have recourse,And tell 'tis ingenite active force. Blackmore.
 False; not true.

 In Vain. To no purpose; to no end; ineffectually; without effect.
He tempts in vain. Milton.
Providence and nature never did any thing in vain. L'Estr.
Strong Halys stands in vain; weak Phlegys flies. Dryd.
The philosophers of old did in vain enquire whether summum bonum consisted in riches, bodily delights, virtue, or contemplation. Locke.
If we hope for what we are not likely to possess, we act and think in vain, and make life a greater dream and shadow than it really is. Addison's Spectator.
If from this discourse one honest man shall receive satisfaction, I shall think that I have not written nor lived in vain. West on the Resurrection.

Vainglorious
Vainglórious. adj. [vanus and gloriosus, Latin.] Boasting without performances; proud in disproportion to desert.
Vain-glorious man, when flutt'ring wind does blow,In his light wings is lifted up to sky. Fairy Queen.
            Strength to glory aspiresVain-glorious, and through infamy seeks fame. Milton.
This his arrogant and vain-glorious expression witnesseth. Hale.

Vainglory
Vainglory. n.s. [vana gloria, Latin.] Pride above merit; empty pride; pride in little things.
He had nothing of vain-glory, but yet kept state and majesty to the height; being sensible, that majesty maketh the people bow, but vain-glory boweth to them. Bacon's Hen. VII.
Expose every blast of vain-glory, every idle thought, to be chastened by the rod of spiritual discipline. Taylor.
This extraordinary person, out of his natural aversion to vain-glory, wrote several pieces, which he did not assume the honour of. Addison.
A monarch's sword, when man vain-glory draws;Not Waller's wreath can hide the nation's scar. Pope.

Vainly
Vaínly. adv. [from vain.]

 Without effect; to no purpose; in vain.
Our cannons malice vainly shall be spentAgainst th' invulnerable clouds of heav'n. Shakesp.
In weak complaints you vainly waste your breath;They are not tears that can revenge his death. Dryden.
 Proudly; arrogantly.
My forepast proofs, howe'er the matter fall,Shall tax my fears of little vanity,Having vainly fear'd too little. Shakespeare.
Humility teaches us to think neither vainly nor vauntingly of ourselves. Delany.
 Idly; foolishly.
Nor vainly hope to be invulnerable. Milton.
If Lentulus be ambitious, he shall be vainly credulous; presuming his advancement to be decreed by the Sybilline oracles. Grew's Cosmol.

Vainness
Váinness. n.s. [from vain.] The state of being vain. Pride; falshood; emptiness.
I hate ingratitude more in a man,Than lying, vainness, babbling. Shakespeare.

Vaivode
Váivode. n.s. [waiwod, a governor, Sclavonian.] A prince of the Dacian provinces.

Valance (noun)
Válance. n.s. [from Valencia, whence the use of them came. Skinner.] The fringes or drapery hanging round the tester and stead of a bed.
            My houseIs richly furnished with plate and gold;Valance of Venice, gold in needlework. Shakespeare.
Thrust the valance of the bed, that it may be full in sight. Swift.

Valance (verb)
To Valánce. v.a. [from the noun.] To decorate with drapery. Not in use.
Old friend, thy face is valanc'd sinceI saw thee last; com'st thou to beard me. Shakes.

Vale
Vale. n.s. [val, Fr. vallis, Latin.]

 A low ground; a valley; a place between two hills.  Vale is a poetical word.
In Ida vale: who knows not Ida vale?An hundred shepherds woned. Spenser.
Met in the vale of Arde. Shakesp. Hen. VIII.
            Anchises, in a flow'ry vale, Review'd his muster'd race, and took the tale. Dryden.
 [From avail, profit; or vale, farewell.  If from avail, it must be written vail, as Dryden writes.  If from vale, which I think is right, it must be vale.] Money given to servants.
Since our knights and senators accountTo what their sordid, begging vails amount;Judge what a wretched share the poor attends,Whose whole subsistence on those alms depends. Dryden.
His revenue, besides vales, amounted to thirty pounds. Swift.

Valediction
Valedíction. n.s. [valedico, Lat.] A farewel. Ainsw.
A valediction forbidding to weep. Donne.

Valedictory
Valedíctory. adj. [from valedico, Lat.] Bidding farewel.

Valentine
Válentine. n.s. A sweetheart, chosen on Valentine's day.
                Now all nature seem'd in love,And birds had drawn their valentines. Wotton.

Valerian
Valérian. n.s. [valeriana, Lat. valerian, Fr.] A plant.
The leaves grow by pairs opposite upon the stalks; the flower consists of one leaf, divided into five segments; these are succeeded by oblong flat seeds. Miller.

Valet
Válet. n.s. [valet, French.] A waiting servant.
Giving cast-clothes to be worn by valets, has a very ill effect upon little minds. Addison.

Valetudinarian
Valetudinárian.Valetúdinary.

adj. [valetudinaire, Fr. valetudo, Lat.] Weakly; sickly; infirm of health.


Physie, by purging noxious humours, prevents sickness in the healthy, or recourse thereof in the valetudinary. Browne.
Shifting from the warmer vallies, to the colder hills, or from the hills to the vales, is a great benefit to the valetudinarian, feeble part of mankind. Derham.
Cold of winter, by stopping the pores of perspiration, keeps the warmth more within; whereby there is a greater quantity of spirits generated in healthful animals, for the case is quite otherwise in valetudinary ones. Cheyne's Phil. Prin.
Valetudinarians must live where they can command and scold. Swift.

Valetudinary
Valetudinárian.Valetúdinary.

adj. [valetudinaire, Fr. valetudo, Lat.] Weakly; sickly; infirm of health.


Physie, by purging noxious humours, prevents sickness in the healthy, or recourse thereof in the valetudinary. Browne.
Shifting from the warmer vallies, to the colder hills, or from the hills to the vales, is a great benefit to the valetudinarian, feeble part of mankind. Derham.
Cold of winter, by stopping the pores of perspiration, keeps the warmth more within; whereby there is a greater quantity of spirits generated in healthful animals, for the case is quite otherwise in valetudinary ones. Cheyne's Phil. Prin.
Valetudinarians must live where they can command and scold. Swift.

Valiance
Váliance. n.s. [from valiant; vaillance, Fr.] Valour; personal puissance; fierceness; bravery.
With stiff force he shook his mortal lance,To let him weet his doughty valiance. Spenser.

Valiant
Váliant. adj. [vaillant, French.] Stout; personally puissant; brave.
Only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. 1 Sam. xviii. 17.
A son of Jesse, a mighty valiant man. 1 Sam. xvi. 18.

Valiantly


Valiantness


Valid


Vamp (noun)
Vamp. n.s. The upper leather of a shoe. Ainsworth.

Vamp (verb)
To Vamp. v.a. [This is supposed probably enough by Skinner to be derived from avant, Fr. before; and to mean laying on a new outside.] To piece an old thing with some new part.
             You wish To vamp a body with a dangerous physick, That's sure of death without. Shakesp. Coriolanus.
 This opinion hath been vamped up by Cardan. Bentley.
 I had never much hopes of your vampt play. Swift.

Vamper
Vámper. n.s. [from vamp.] One who pieces out an old thing with something new.

Van
Van. n.s. [from avant, French.]

 The front of an army; the first line.
 Before each van prick forth the airy knights. Milton.
             The foe he had survey'd, Arrang'd, as to him they did appear, With van, main battle, wings, and rear. Hudibras.
 Van to van the foremost squadrons meet, The midmost battles hast'ning up behind. Dryden.
 [van, Fr. vannus, Latin.] Any thing spread wide by which a wind is raised; a fan.
 The other token of their ignorance of the sea was an oar, they call it a corn-van. Notes on Odyss.
 A wing with which the air is beaten.
                 His sail-broad vans He spreads for flight, and in the surging smoke Up-lifted, spurns the ground. Milton's Par. Lost.
                 A fiery globe Of angels on full sail of wing drew nigh, Who on their plumy vans receiv'd him soft From his uneasy station, and upbore, As on a floating couch, through the blithe air. Milton.
             His disabled wing unstrung: He wheel'd in air, and stretch'd his vans in vain; His vans no longer could his flight sustain. Dryden.
 The vanes are broad on one side, and narower on the other; both which minister to the progressive motion of the bird. Derh.

Vancourier
Váncourier. n.s. [avantcourier, French.] A harbinger; a precussor.

Vane
Vane. n.s. [vaene, Dutch.] A plate hung on a pin to turn with the wind.
A man she wou'd spell backward; If tall, a lance ill-headed; If speaking, why a vane blown with all winds. Shakesp.

Vanguard
Vánguard. n.s. [avant garde, French.] The front, or first line of the army.
 The king's vant-guard maintained fight against the whole power of the enemies. Bacon.
Vanguard to right and left the front unfold. Milton.

Vection
Véction.Véctitation.

n.s. [vectio, vectito, Latin.] The act of carrying, or being carried.


Enervated lords are softly lolling in their chariots; a species of vectitation seldom used amongst the antients. Arbuthnot.

Vectitation
Véction.Véctitation.

n.s. [vectio, vectito, Latin.] The act of carrying, or being carried.


Enervated lords are softly lolling in their chariots; a species of vectitation seldom used amongst the antients. Arbuthnot.

Veil (noun)
Veil. n.s. [velum, Latin.]

 A cover to conceal the face.
            To feed his fiery lustful eye,He snatch'd the veil that hung her face before. Fairy Queen.
The Paphian queen from that fierce battle borne,With gored hand, and veil so rudely torn,Like terror did among the immortals breed. Waller.
The famous painter cou'd allow no placeFor private sorrow in a prince's face:Yet, that his piece might not exceed belief,He cast a veil upon the supposed grief. Waller.
As veils transparent cover, but not hide,Such metaphors appear when right apply'd,When through the phrase we plainly see the sense,Truth with such obvious meanings will dispense. Granville.
She accepts the hero, and the dameWraps in her vail, and frees from sense of shame. Pope.
 A cover; a disguise.
I will pluck the borrow'd veil of modesty from the so seeming Mrs. Page; divulge Page himself for a secure and wilful Acteon. Shakesp. Merry Wives of Windsor.
Knock on my heart; for thou hast skill to findIf it sound solid, or be fill'd with wind;And thro' the veil of words thou view'st the naked mind. Dry.
The ill-natured man exposes those failing in human nature, which the other would cast a veil over. Addison.

Veil (verb)
To Veil. v.n. [velo, Lat. See Vail.]

 To cover with a veil, or any thing which conceals the face.
Her face was veil'd; yet to my fancied sight,Love, sweetness, goodness in her person shin'd. Milton.
It became the Jewish fashion when they went to pray, to veil their heads and faces. Boyle.
 To cover; to invest.
                    I descry,From yonder blazing cloud that veils the hill,One of the heav'nly host. Milton.
 To hide; to conceal.
Of darkness visible so much be lent,As half to shew, half veil the deep intent. Pope's Dunciad.

Velleity
Velléity. n.s. [velleïté, Fr. velleitas, from velle, Latin.]
Velleity is the school-term used to signify the lowest degree of desire. Locke.
The wishing of a thing is not properly the willing of it; but it is that which is called by the schools an imperfect velleity, and imports no more than an idle, un-operative complacency in, and desire of the end, without any consideration of the means. South.

Vice (noun)


Vicissitude
Vicíssitude. [vicissitudo, Latin.]

 Regular change; return of the same things in the same succession.
                 It makes through heav'n Grateful vicissitude, like day and night. Milton.
 The rays of light are alternately disposed to be reflected or refracted for many vicissitudes. Newton.
 This succession of things upon the earth, is the result of the vicissitude of seasons, and is as constant as is the cause of that vicissitude, the sun's declination. Woodward.
 Revolution; change.
 During the course of the war, did the vicissitudes of good and bad fortune affect us with humility or thankfulness. Atterb.
 Verse sweetens toil, however rude the sound. Nor as she turns the giddy wheel around, Revolves the sad vicissitude of things. Giffard.

Vigesimation
Vigesimátion. n.s. [vegesimus, Latin.] The act of putting to death every twentieth man. Bailey.

Villatick
Villátick. adj. [villaticus, Lat.] Belonging to villages.
         Evening dragon came, Assailant on the perched roosts, And nests in order rang'd, Of tame villatick fowl. Milton.

Villi
Vílli. n.s. [Latin.]
 In anatomy, are the same as fibres; and in botany, small hairs like the grain of plush or shag, with which, as a kind of excrescense, some trees do abound. Quincy.

Villous
Víllous. adj. [villosus, Lat.] Shaggy; rough.
 The liquor of the stomach, which with fasting grows sharp, and the quick sensation of the inward villous coat of the stomach, seem to be the cause of the sense of hunger. Arb.

Vimineous
Vimíneous. adj. [vimineus, Latin.] Made of twigs.
As in the hive's vimineous dome, Ten thousand bees enjoy their home; Each does her studious action vary, To go and come, to fetch and carry. Prior.

Viol
Víol. n.s. [violle, Fr. viola, Ital.] A stringed instrument of musick.
         My tongue's use is to me no more, Than an unstringed viol, or a harp. Shakesp.
 To strain a string, stop it with the finger, as in the necks of lutes and viols. Bacon.
 Loud o'er the rest Cremona's trump doth sound; Me softer airs befit, and softer strings Of lute, or viol, still more apt for mournful things. Milton.

Virelay
Vírelay. n.s. [virelay, virelai, Fr.] A sort of little ancient French poem, that consisted only of two rhymes and short verses, with stops. L'Acad.
The mournful muse in mirth now list ne mask, As she was wont in youngth and summer days; But if thou algate lust like virelays, And looser songs of love to undersong. Spenser.
 The band of flutes began to play, To which a lady sung a virelay: And still at ev'ry close she would repeat The burden of the song, the daisy is so sweet. Dryden.

Virility


Virmilion


Virtual
Vi'rtual. adj. [virtuel, Fr. from virtue.] Having the efficacy without the sensible or material part.
Metalline waters have virtual cold in them.  Put therefore wood into smith's water, and try whether it will not harden. Bacon.
Heat and cold have a virtual transition, without communication of substance. Bacon.
Love not the heav'nly spirits? And how their love  Express they?  by looks only? or, do they mix Irradiance? virtual, or immediate touch? Milton.
             Every kind that lives, Fomented by his virtual pow'r, and warm'd. Milton.
Neither an actual or virtual intention of the mind, but only that which may be gathered from the outward acts. Stillingfleet.

Virtuality
Virtua'lity. n.s. [from virtual.] Efficacy.
 In one grain of corn there lieth dormant a virtuality of many other, and from thence sometimes proceed an hundred ears. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Virtually
Vi'rtually. adv. [from virtual.] In effect, though not formally.
They are virtually contained in other words still continued. Hammond's Fundamentals.
Such is our constitution, that the bulk of the people virtually give their approbation to every thing they are bound to obey. Addison.

Virtuate
To Vi'rtuate. v.a. [from virtue.] To make efficacious.
Potable gold should be endued with a capacity of being assimilated to the innate heat; and radical moisture; or at least virtuated with a power of generating the said essentials. Harvey.

Virtue
Vi'rtue. n.s. [virtus, Lat.]

 Moral grounds.
 Either I'm mistaken, or there is virtue in that Falstaff. Shakesp.
 If there's a power above us, And that there is, all nature cries aloud Through all her works, he must delight in virtue, And that which he delights in must be happy. Addison.
 Virtue only makes our bliss below. Pope.
 The character of prince Henry is improved by Shakespear; and through the veil of his vices and irregularities, we see a dawn of greatness and virtue. Shakesp. illustrated.
 A particular moral excellence.
              In Belmont is a lady, And she is fair, and, fairer than that word, Of wond'rous virtues. Shakesp. Merchant of Venice.
          Remember all his virtues, And shew mankind that goodness is your care. Addison.
 Medicinal quality.
                      All blest secrets, All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth, Be aidant and remediate. Shakesp. K. Lear.
 The virtuous bezoar is taken from the beast that feedeth upon the mountains; and that without virtue from those that feed in the vallies. Bacon.
 Medicinal efficacy.
 An essay writer must practice the chemical method, and give the vitue of a draught in a few drops. Addison.
 Efficacy; power.
 If neither words, nor herbs will do, I'll try stones; for there's a virtue in them. L'Estrange.
 Where there is a full purpose to please God, there, what a man can do, shall, by virtue therefore, be accepted. South.
 They are not sure, by virtue of syllogism, that the conclusion certainly follows from the premises. Locke.
 This they shall attain, partly in virtue of the promise made by God; and partly in virtue of piety. Atterbury.
 He used to travel through Greece, by virtue of this fable, which procured him reception in all the towns. Addison.
 Acting power.
 Jesus knowing that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about. Mark v. 30.
 Secret agency; efficacy, without visible or material action.
 She moves the body, which she doth possess; Yet no part toucheth, but by virtue's touch. Davies.
 Bravery; valour.
 Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers Took their discharge. Shakesp. K. Lear.
 The conquest of Palestine, with singular virtue they performed, and held that kingdom some few generations. Raleigh.
 Excellence; that which gives excellence.
 In the Greek poets, as also in Plautus, the oeconomy of poems is better observed than in Terence; who thought the sole grace and virtue of their fable, the sticking in of sentences, as ours do the forcing in of jests. B. Johnson.
 One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy.
 Thrones, domination, princedoms, virtues, pow'rs. Milt.
 A winged virtue through th' etherial sky, From orb to orb unwearied dost thou fly. Tickell.

Virtueless
Vi'rtueless. adj. [from virtue.]

 Wanting virtue; deprived of virtue.

Not having efficacy; without operating qualities.
 All second causes, together with nature herself, without that operative faculty which God gave them, would become altogether silent, virtueless, and dead. Raleigh.
 Virtueless she wisht all herbs and charms, Wherewith false men increase their patients harms. Fairfax.
 Some would make those glorious creatures virtueless. Hakewell.

Virtuoso
Virtuo'so. n.s. [Italian.] A man skilled in antique or natural curiosities; a man studious of painting, statuary, or architecture.
Methinks those generous virtuosi dwell in a higher region than other mortals. Glanville.
 Virtuoso, the Italians call a man who loves the noble arts, and is a critick in them.  And amongst our French painters, the word vertueux is understood in the same signification. Dryd.
 This building was beheld with admiration by the virtuosi of that time. Tatler, № 52.
 Showers of rain are now met with in every water-work; and the virtuoso's of France covered a little vault with artificial snow. Addison.

Virtuous
Vi'rtuous. adj. [from virtue.]

 Morally good.
If his occasion were not virtuous, I should not urge it so faithfully. Shakespeare.
Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror. Shakespeare.
             What she will to do or say Is wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best. Milton.
Favour'd of heaven, who finds One virtuous rarely found, That in domestick good combines: Happy that house!  his way to peace is smooth. Milton.
 [Applied to women.] Chaste.
 Mistress Ford, the modest wife, the virtuous creature, that hath the jealous fool to her husband! Shakesp.
 Done in consequence of moral goodness.
 Nor love is always of a vicious kind, But oft to virtuous acts inflames the mind. Dryden.
 Efficacious; powerful.
 With one virtuous touch, th' arch-chemic sun, Produces, with terrestrial humour mix'd, Here in the dark, so many precious things. Milton.
 Having wonderful or eminent properties.
                      Out of his hand, That virtuous steed he rudely snatch'd away. Fairy Queen.
              Lifting up his virtuous staff on high, He smote the sea, which calmed was with speed. Spencer.
 He own'd that virtuous ring and glass. Milton.
 Having medicinal qualities.
 Some observe that there is a virtuous bezoar, and another without virtue; the virtuous is taken from the beast that feedeth where there are theriacal herbs; and that without virtue, from those what feed where no such herbs are. Bacon.
             The ladies sought around For virtuous herbs, which, gather'd from the ground, They squezz'd the juice; and cooling ointment made. Dryd.

Virtuously
Vi'rtuously. adv. [from virtuous.] In a virtuous manner; according to rules of virtue.
The Gods are my witnesses, I desire to do virtuously. Sidney.
In sum, they taught the world no less virtuously how to die, than they had done before how to live. Hooker.
They that mean virtuously, and yet do so, The devil their virtue tempts not, they tempt heav'n. Shak.
Not from grey hairs authority doth flow, Nor from bald heads, nor from a wrinkled brow; But our past life, when virtuously spent, Must to our age those happy fruits present. Denham.
The coffeeman has a little daughter four years old, who has been virtuously educated. Addison.

Virtuousness
Vi'rtuousness. n.s. [from virtuous.] The state or character of being virtuous.
Many other advantages are intermeddled; as the love of Britomert, and virtuousness of Belphæbe; and the lasciviousnesss of Helenora. Spenser.

Virulence
Vi'rulence.Vi'rulency.

n.s. [from virulent.] Mental poison; malignity, acrimony of temper; bitterness.


Disputes in religion are managed with virulency and bitterness. Decay of Piety.
It instils into their minds the utmost virulence, instead of that charity which is the perfection and ornament of religion. Addison.
The whigs might easily have maintained a majority among the clergy, if they had not too much encouraged this intemperance of speech, and virulence of pen in the most prostitute of their party. Swift.

Virulency
Vi'rulence.Vi'rulency.

n.s. [from virulent.] Mental poison; malignity, acrimony of temper; bitterness.


Disputes in religion are managed with virulency and bitterness. Decay of Piety.
It instils into their minds the utmost virulence, instead of that charity which is the perfection and ornament of religion. Addison.
The whigs might easily have maintained a majority among the clergy, if they had not too much encouraged this intemperance of speech, and virulence of pen in the most prostitute of their party. Swift.

Virulent
To Vi'rulent. adj.  [virulent, Fr.   virulentus, Lat.]

 Poisonous; venemous.

 Poisoned in the mind; bitter; malignant.

Vitious
Vítious. adj. [vicieux, Fr. vitiosus, Latin.]

 Corrupt; wicked; opposite to virtuous. It is rather applied to habitual faults, than criminal actions.
            Make known It is no vitious blot, murder, or foulness That hath depriv'd me of your grace. Shakesp. K. Lear.
 Witness th' irreverent son Of him who built the ark; who, for the shame Done to his father, heard his heavy curse, 'Servant of servants,' on his vitious race. Milton.
 Wit's what the vitious fear, the virtuous shun; By fools 'tis hated, and by knaves undone. Pope.
 No troops abroad are so ill disciplin'd as the English; which cannot well be otherwise, while the common soldiers have before their eyes the vitious example of their leaders. Swift.
 Corrupt; having physical ill qualities.
 When vitious language contends to be high, it is full of rock, mountain, and pointedness. B. Johnson.
 Here from the vicious air and sickly skies, A plague did on the dumb creation rise. Dryden.

Vogue


Voice (noun)
Voice, n.s. [voix,Fr. vocis, Lat.]

 Sound emitted by the mouth.

 Sound of the mouth, as distinguished from that uttered by another mouth.
 Air in sounds that are not tones, which are all equal, admitteth much variety, as in the voices of living creatures, and in the voices of several men; for we can discern several men by their voices. Bacon's Nat. Hist.
 Any sound made by breath.
 O Marcus, I am warm'd; my heart Leaps at the trumpet's voice, and burns for glory. Addison.
 Vote; suffrage; opinion expressedd.
 Are you all resolved to give your voices? But that's no matter, the greater part carries it. Shakesp.
                 I've no words; My voice is in my sword! thou bloodier villain
 Than terms can give thee out. Shakesp. Macbeth.
 The state was betrayed by the multitude and corruption of voices, and must shortly perish, if not committed to the grave judgment of some few; for two hundred gave voices, reducing that multitude to fifty, who, for their experience, were holden for men of greatest gravity. Knolles.
 Some laws ordain, and some attend the choice Of holy senates, and elect by voice. Dryden.

Vouch (noun)
Vouch.  v.s.  [from the verb.]  Warrant; attestation.
What praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed? one that in authority of her merit, did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?  Shakesp. Othello.

Voucher
Vo'ucher.  v.s.  [from vouch.]  One who gives witness to any thing.
                     Better to starve, Than crave the hire which first we do deserve: Why in this wolvish gown should I stand here, To beg of Hob and Dick, that do appear, Their needless voucher?  Shakesp. Coriolanus.
The stamp is a mark, and a public voucher, that a piece of such denomination is of such a weight, and of such a fineness, i.e. has so much silver in it. Locke.
All the great writers of that age stand up together as vouchers for one another's reputation. Spectator, №. 253.
I have added nothing to the malice or absurdity of them, which it behoves me to declare, since the vouchers themselves will be so soon lost. Pope.

Vouchsafe (verb active)
To Vouchsa'fe.  v.a.  [vouch and safe.]

 To permit any thing to be done without danger.

 To condescend to grant.
 He grew content to mark their speeches, then marvel at such wit in shepherds, after to like their company, and lastly to vouchsafe conference.  Sidney.
 Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two? —— — Two thousand, fair woman, and I'll Vouchsafe thee hearing.  Shakespeare.
 But if the sense of touch seem such delight Beyond all other, think the same vouchsaf'd To cattle and each beast. Milton.
 It is not said by the apostle, that God vouchsafed to the heathens the means of salvation; and yet I will not affirm that God will save none of those, to whom the sound of the gospel never reached. South's Sermons.

Vouchsafe (verb neuter)
To Vouchsa'fe.  v.n.  To deign; to condescend; to yield.
Do I not see Zelmane, who does not think a thought which is not first weigh'd by wisdom and virtue? doth not she vouchsafe to love me with like ardour?  Sidney, b. ii.
Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman, Of these supposed crimes to give me leave By circumstance but to acquit myself.  Shakesp. Rich. III.
What pow'r the charms of beauty had of old. Dryden.

Vouchsafement
Vouchsa'fement.  n.s.  [from vouchsafe.] Grant; condescension.
The infinite superiority of God's nature, places a vast disparity betwixt his greatest communicated vouchsafements, and his boundless, and therefore to his creatures incommunicable perfections.  Boyle.

Vow (noun)
Vow. n.s. [vœu, Fr.  votum, Lat.]

 Any promise made to a divine power; an act of devotion, by which some part of life, or some part of possessions is consecrated to a particular purpose.
 The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows; They are polluted offerings.  Shakespeare.
 If you take the vow and that wish to be all one, you are mistaken; a wish is a far lower degree than a vow.  Hammond.
 She vows for his return, with vain devotion, pays.  Dryd.
 A solemn promise, commonly used for a promise of love or matrimony.
 By all the vows that ever men have broke, In number more than ever women spoke.  Shakespeare.
 Those who wear the woodbine on their brow, Were knights of love, who never broke their vow; Firm to their plighted faith.  Dryden.

Vow (verb active)
To Vow.  v.a.  [vouer, Fr.  voveo, Lat.]  To consecrate by a solemn dedication; to give to a divine power.
David often voweth unto God the sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving in the congregation.  Hooker.
To Master Harvey, upon some special consideration, I have vowed this my labour.  Spenser.
Vow and pay unto the Lord.  Ps. lxxvi.
When we have not only vowed, but delivered them over into the possession of Almighty God, for the maintenance of his publick worship, and the ministers thereof, they are not now arbitrable, nor to be revoked.  Spelman.
Whoever sees these irreligious men, With burden of a sickness, weak and faint, But hears them talking of religion then, And vowing of their soul to ev'ry saint.  Davies
This plant Latinus, when his town he wall'd, Then found, and from the tree Laurentum call'd: And last, in honour of his new abode, He vow'd the laurel to the laurel's god.  Dryden.

Vow (verb neuter)
To Vow.  v.n.  To make vows or solemn promises.
Dost see how unregarded now That piece of beauty passes? There was a time, when I did vow To that alone: but mark the fate of faces.  Suckling.

Vowel
Vo'wel.  n.s.  [voyelle, Fr. vocalis, Lat.]  A letter which can be uttered by itself.
I distinguish letters into vowels and consonants, yet not wholly upon their reason, that a vowel may be sounded alone, a consonant not without a vowel; which will not be found all true; for many consonants may be sounded alone, and some joined together without a vowel, as bl. st. and as we pronounce the latter syllable of people, riffle.  Holder.
Virgil makes the two vowels meet without an elision.  Broome.

Vowfellow
Vowfe'llow.  n.s.  [vow and fellow.]  One bound by the same vow.
         Who are the votaries, That are vowfellows with this virtuous king? Shakesp.

Voyage (noun)
Vo'yage. n.s. [voyage, Fr.]

 A travel by sea.
 Guyon forward 'gan his voyage make, With his black palmer, that him guided still. Fairy Queen.
 Our ships went sundry voyages, as well to the pillars of Hercules, as to other parts in the Atlantick and Mediterranean seas. Bacon.
 This great man acted like an able pilot in a long voyage; contented to sit in the cabin when the winds were allay'd, but ready to resume the helm with the storm arose. Prior.
 Course; attempt; undertaking. A low phrase.
 If he shou'd intend his voyage towards my wife, I wou'd turn her loose to him; and what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head. Shakespeare.
 If you make your voyage upon her, and prevail, I am no further your enemy. Shakesp. Cymbeline.
 The practice of travelling.
 All nations have interknowledge of one another, by voyage into foreign parts, or strangers that come to them. Bacon.

Voyage (verb active)
To Vo'yage. v.a. To travel; to pass over.
                     I with pain Voyag'd th' unreal, vast, unbounded deep Of horrible confusion. Milton's Par. Lost.

Voyage (verb neuter)
To Vo'yage. v.n. [voyager, Fr. from the noun.] To travel by sea.
For voyaging to learn the direful art, To taint with deadly drugs the barbed dart; Ilus refus'd t' impart the baneful trust. Pope's Oddyssey.

Voyager
Vo'yager. n.s. [voyageur, Fr. from voyage.] One who travels by sea.
Disdain not in thy constant travelling To do as other voyagers, and make Some turns into less creeks, and wisely take Fresh water at the Heliconian spring. Donne.
How comfortable this is, voyagers can best tell. Cheyne.
Deny your vessels, ye deny in vain; A private voyager I pass the main. Pope's Odyssey.

Vulcano
Vulcáno. n.s. [Italian.] A burning mountain; volcano.
Earth calcin'd, flies off into the air; the ashes of burning mountains, in vulcano's, will be carried to great distances. Arb.

Vulgar (adjective)
Vúlgar. adj. [vulgaire, Fr. vulgaris, Lat.]

 Plebian; suiting to the common people; practised among the common people.
Men who have passed all their time in low and vulgar life, cannot have a suitable idea of the several beauties and blemishes in the actions of great men. Addison.
 Mean; low; being of the common rate.
It requiring too great a sagacity for vulgar minds to draw the line between virtue and vice, no wonder if most men attempt not a laborious scrutiny into things themselves, but only take names and words, and so rest in them. South.
Nor wasting years my former strength confound,And added woes have bow'd me to the ground:Yet by the stubble you may guess the grain,And mark the ruins of no vulgar man. Broome.
 Publick; commonly bruited.
Do you hear aught of a battle toward? —— Most sure, and vulgar; every one hears that. Shakesp.

Vulgar (noun)
Vúlgar. n.s. [vulgaire, Fr.] The common people.
                                  I'll about;Drive away the vulgar from the streets. Shakespeare.
Those men, and their adherents, were then looked upon by the affrighted vulgar, as greater protectors of their laws and liberties than myself. K. Charles.
The vulgar imagine the pretender to have been a child imposed upon the nation by the fraudulent zeal of his parents, and their bigotted counsellors. Swift.

Vulgarity
Vulgárity. n.s. [from vulgar.]

 Meanness; state of the lowest people.
Although their condition may place them many spheres above the multitude; yet are they still within the line of vulgarity and democratical enemies to truth. Brown.
True it is, and I hope I shall not offend their vulgarities, if I say they are daily mocked into error by devisers. Brown.
 Particular instance or specimen of meanness.
Is the grand sophos of Persius, and the sublimity of Juvenal to be circumscribed with the meanness of words, and vulgarity of expression? Dryden's Dedication to Juvenal.

Vulgarly
Vúlgarly. adv. [from vulgar.] Commonly; in the ordinary manner; among the common people.
He was, which people much respectIn princes, and which pleases vulgarly,Of goodly pers'nage, and of sweet aspect. Daniel.
He, that believes himself uncapable of pardon, goes on without thought of reforming; such an one we call vulgarly a desperate person. Hammond's Practical Catechism.
As it is vulgarly understood, that he cut a passage for his army through these mighty mountains, it may seem incredible. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Vulnerable
Vúlnerable. adj. [vulnerable, Fr. vulnerabilis, Lat.] Susceptive of wounds; liable to external injuries.
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests:I bear a charmed life, which must not yieldTo one of woman born. Shakesp. Macbeth.
Achilles though dipt in Styx, yet having his heel untouched by that water, although he were fortified elsewhere, he was slain in that part, as only vulnerable in the inferior and brutal part. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Vulnerary
Vúlnerary. adj. [vulneraire, Fr. vulnerarius, Lat.] Useful in the cure of wounds.
Try whether the same effect will not ensue, by common vulnerary plaisters. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
I kept the orifice open, and prescribed him vulneraries. Wiseman's Surgery.

Vulnerate
To Vúlnerate. v.a. [vulnero, Lat.] To wound; to hurt.
De facto there is such an intercourse between the magnetick unguent and the vulnerated body. Glanvill's Sceps.

Vulpine
Vúlpine. adj. [vulpinus, Lat.] Belonging to a fox.

Vulterine
Vu'lturine. adj. [vulturinus, Lat.] Belonging to a vulture.

Vulture
Vúlture. n.s. [vultur, Lat.] A large bird of prey remarkable for voracity.
Nor the night raven, that still deadly yells,Nor griesly vultures make us once affear'd. Spenser.
We've willing dames enough, there cannot beThat vulture in you to devour so many,As will to greatness dedicate themselves. Shakesp.
A rav'nous vulture in his open'd side,Her crooked beak and cruel talons try'd. Dryden.
