Zaffar
Za'ffar.Za'ffir.

n.s.


Powder the calx of cobalt, very fine, and mix it with three times its weight of powdered flints, this being wetted with common water, the whole concretes into a solid mass called zaffre, which from its hardness has been mistaken for a native mineral. Hill on Fossils.
Cobalt being sublimed, the flowers are of a blue colour; these, German mineralists call zaffir. Woodward.
The artificers in glass tinge their glass blue with that dark mineral zaphara. Boyle on Colours.

Zaffir
Za'ffar.Za'ffir.

n.s.


Powder the calx of cobalt, very fine, and mix it with three times its weight of powdered flints, this being wetted with common water, the whole concretes into a solid mass called zaffre, which from its hardness has been mistaken for a native mineral. Hill on Fossils.
Cobalt being sublimed, the flowers are of a blue colour; these, German mineralists call zaffir. Woodward.
The artificers in glass tinge their glass blue with that dark mineral zaphara. Boyle on Colours.

Zany
Za'ny. n.s. [Probably of zanei.] The contraction of Giovanni or sanna, a scoff, according to Skinner.] One employed to raise laughter by his gestures, actions and speeches; a merry Andrew; a buffoon.
Some carrytale, some pleaseman, some slight zany,Some mumblenews, some trencher knight, some Dick,Told our intents before. Shakespeare.
Then write that I may follow, and so beThy echo, thy debtor, thy foil, thy zany,I shall be thought, if mine like thine I shape,All the world's lion, though I be thy ape. Donne.
Oh, great restorer of the good old stage,Preacher at once, and zany of thy age. Pope's Dunciad.

Zarnich
Za'rnich. n.s. Zarnich is a solid substance in which orpiment is frequently found; and it approaches to the nature of orpiment, but without its lustre and foliated texture.  The common kinds of zarnich are green and yellow; and to this we owe the distinction of orpiment into these colours, though there is no such substance as green orpiment. Zarnich contains a large quantity of arsenick in it. Hill's Materia Medica.

Zeal
Zeal. n.s. [ζῆλος, zelus, Latin.] Passionate ardour for any person or cause.
This present age, wherein zeal hath drowned charity and skill; meekness will not now suffer any man to marvel, whatsoever he shall hear reproved by whomsoever. Hooker.
If I had had time to have made new liveries, I would have bestowed the thousand pound I borrowed of you: but it is no matter, this poor show doth better; this doth infer the zeal I had to see him. Shakespeare's Henry IV.
           O Cromwell, Cromwell!Had I but serv'd my God with half the zealI serv'd my king, he would not in mine ageHave left me naked to mine enemies. Shakespeare.
              Among the seraphimsAbdiel, than whom none with more zeal ador'dThe Deity, and divine commands obey'd,Stood up, and in a flame of zeal severe,The current of his fury thus oppos'd. Milton's Parad. Lost.
Zeal, the blind conductor of the will. Dryden.
She with such a zeal the cause embrac'd,As women, where they will, are all in haste;The father, mother, and the kin beside,Were overborne by the fury of the tide. Dryden.
The princes applaud with a furious joy,And the king seiz'd a flambeau with zeal to destroy. Dryden.
Seriousness and zeal in religion is natural to the English. Tillotson's Sermons.
Good men often blemish the reputation of their piety by over-acting some things in their religion; by an indiscreet zeal about things wherein religion is not concerned. Tillotson.
True zeal seems not to be any one single affection of the soul; but rather a strong mixture of many holy affections; rather a gracious constitution of the whole mind, than any one particular grace, swaying a devout heart, and filling it with all pious intentions; all not only uncounterfeit, but most fervent. Sprat's Sermons.
When the sins of a nation have provoked God to forsake it, he suffers those to concur in the most pernicious counsels for enslaving conscience, who pretend to the greatest zeal for the liberty of it. Stillingfleet.
This rebellion has discovered to his majesty, who have espoused his interests with zeal or indifference. Addison's Freeh.
A scorn of flattery and a zeal for truth. Pope.

Zealot
Zea'lot. n.s. [zeloteur, French; ζηλωτης.] One passionately ardent in any cause. Generally used in dispraise.
The fury of zealots, intestine bitterness and division were the greatest occasion of the last fatal destruction of Jerusalem. King Charles.
Are not those men too often the greatest zealots who are most notoriously ignorant? true zeal should always begin with true knowledge, and thence proceed to an unwearied passion, for what it once knows to be worthy of such passion. Sprat.
No wonder that so many of these deluded zealots have been engaged in a cause which they at first abhorred, and have wished or acted for the success of an enterprize, that might have ended in the extirpation of the protestant religion. Addison.

Zealous
Zea'lous. adj. [from zeal.] Ardently passionate in any cause.
Our hearts are right with God, and our intentions pious, if we act our temporal affairs with a desire no greater than our necessity, and in actions of religion we be zealous, active, and operative, so far as prudence will permit. Taylor.
This day, at height of noon, came to my sphere,A spirit, zealous, as he seem'd to knowMore of the Almighty's works. Milton's Paradise Lost.
We should be not only devout towards God, but zealous towards men; endeavouring by all prudent means to recover them out of those snares of the devil, whereby they are taken captive. Decay of Piety.
It is not at all good to be zealous against any person, but only against their crimes.  It is better to be zealous for things than for persons: but then it should be only for good things; a rule that does certainly exclude all manner of zeal for ill things, all manner of zeal for little things. Sprat's Sermons.
Being instructed only in the general, and zealous in the main design; and as finite beings, not admitted into the secrets of government, the last resorts of providence, or capable of discovering the final purposes of God, they must be sometimes ignorant of the means conducing to those ends in which alone they can oppose each other. Dryden.

Zealously
Zea'lously. adv. [from zealous.] With passionate ardour.
Thy care is fixt, and zealously attends,To fill thy odorous lamp with deeds of light,And hope that reaps not shame. Milton.
To enter into a party as into an order of friars, with so resigned an obedience to superiors, is very unsuitable with the civil and religious liberties we so zealously assert. Swift.

Zealousness
Zea'lousness. n.s. [from zealous.] The quality of being zealous.

Zechin
Ze'chin. n.s. [So named from zecha, a place in Venice where the mint is settled for coinage.] A gold coin worth about nine shillings sterling.

Zed
Zed. n.s. The name of the letter z.
Thou whoreson zed, thou unnecessary letter. Shakespeare.

Zedoary
Zedo'ary. n.s. [zedoaire, French.] A spicy plant, somewhat like ginger in its leaves, but of a sweet scent.

Zenith
Ze'nith. n.s. [Arabick.] The point over head opposite to the nadir.
Fond men! if we believe that men do liveUnder the zenith of both frozen poles,Though none come thence, advertisement to give,Why bear we not the like faith of our souls? Davies.
These seasons are designed by the motions of the sun, when that approaches nearest our zenith, or vertical point, we call it summer. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Zephyr
Ze'phyr.Ze'phyrus.

n.s. [zephyrus, Latin.] The west wind; and poetically any calm soft wind.


                  They are as gentleAs zephyrs blowing below the violet. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
Zephyr, you shall see a youth with a merry countenance, holding in his hand a swan with wings displayed, as about to sing. Peacham on Drawing.
Forth rush the levent and the potent winds,Eurus and Zephyr. Milton.
Mild as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes. Milton.
          Their every musick wakes,Whence blending all the sweeten'd zephyr springs. Thomson.

Zephyrus
Ze'phyr.Ze'phyrus.

n.s. [zephyrus, Latin.] The west wind; and poetically any calm soft wind.


                  They are as gentleAs zephyrs blowing below the violet. Shakespeare's Cymbeline.
Zephyr, you shall see a youth with a merry countenance, holding in his hand a swan with wings displayed, as about to sing. Peacham on Drawing.
Forth rush the levent and the potent winds,Eurus and Zephyr. Milton.
Mild as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes. Milton.
          Their every musick wakes,Whence blending all the sweeten'd zephyr springs. Thomson.

Zest (noun)
Zest. n.s.

 The peel of an orange squeezed into wine.

 A relish; a taste added.

Zest (verb)
To Zest. v.a. To heighten by an additional relish.

Zetetick
Zete'tick. adj. [from ζητέω.] Proceeding by enquiry.

Zeugma
Zeu'gma. n.s. [from ζεῦγμα.] A figure in Grammar, when a verb agreeing with divers nouns, or an adjective with divers substantives, is referred to one expressly, and to the other by supplement, as lust overcame shame, boldness fear, and madness reason.

Zocle
Zoc'le. n.s. [In architecture.] A small sort of stand or pedestal, being a low square piece or member, serving to support a busto, statue, or the like, that needs to be raised; also a low square member serving to support a column, instead of a pedestal, base, or plinth. Dict.

Zodiack
Zo'diack. n.s. [zodiaque, French; ζωδιακὸς, ἐκ τῶν ζώων, the living creatures, the figures of which are painted on it in globes.] The track of the sun through the twelve signs; a great circle of the sphere, containing the twelve signs.
The golden sun salutes the morn,And having gilt the ocean with his beams,Gallops the zodiack in his glist'ring coach. Shakespeare.
Years he number'd scarce thirteen,When fates turn'd cruel;Yet three fill'd zodiacks had he beenThe stage's jewel. Ben. Johnson.
                    By his side,As in a glist'ring zodiack hung the sword,Satan's dire dread; and in his hand the spear. Milton.
It exceeds even their absurdity to suppose the zodiack and planets to be efficient of, and antecedent to themselves, or to exert any influences before they were in being. Bentley.
Here in a shrine that cast a dazling light,Sat fixt in thought the mighty Stagyrite;His sacred head a radiant zodiack crown'd;And various animals his sides surround. Pope.

Zone
Zone. n.s. [ζωνὴ; zona, Latin.]

 A girdle.
                The middle partGirt like a starry zone his waist, and roundSkirted his loins, and thighs, with downy goldAnd colours dipp'd in heav'n. Milton's Paradise Lost.
An embroider'd zone surrounds her waist. Dryden.
Thy statues, Venus, though by Phidias' handsDesign'd immortal, yet no longer stands;The magick of thy shining zone is past,But Salisbury's garter shall for ever last. Granville.
Scarce could the goddess from her nymph be known,But by the crescent and the golden zone. Pope.
 A division of the earth.
The whole surface of the earth is divided into five zones: the first is contained between the two tropicks and is called the torrid zone.  There are two temperate zones, and two frigid zones.  The northern temperate zone is terminated by the tropick of Cancer and the artick polar circle: the southern temperate zone is contained between the tropick of Capricorn and the polar circle: the frigid zones are circumscribed by the polar circles, and the poles are in their centers.
True love is still the same: the torrid zones,And those more frigid ones,It must not know:For love grown cold or hot,Is lust or friendship, notThe thing we show;For that's a flame would die,Held down or up too high:Then think I love more than I can express,And would love more, could I but love thee less. Suckling.
As five zones th' etherial regions bind,Five correspondent are to earth assign'd:The sun, with rays directly darting down,Fires all beneath, and fries the middle zone. Dryden.
 Circuit; circumference.
                  Scarce the sunHath finish'd half his journey, and scarce beginsHis other half in the great zone of heav'n. Milton.

Zoographer
Zoo'grapher. n.s. [ζωὴ and γράφω.] One who describes the nature, properties, and forms of animals.
One kind of locust stands not prone, or a little inclining upward; but a large erectness, elevating the two fore legs, and sustaining itself in the middle of the other four, by zoographers called the prophet and praying locust. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Zoography
Zoo'graphy. n.s. [of ζωὴ and γράφω.] A description of the forms, natures, and properties of animals.
If we contemplate the end of the effect, its principal final cause being the glory of its maker, this leads us into divinity; and for its subordinate, as it is designed for alimental sustenance to living creatures, and medicinal uses to man, we are thereby conducted into zoography. Glanv. Sceps.

Zoology
Zoo'logy. n.s. [of ζῶον and λογος.] A treatise concerning living creatures.

Zoophorick Column
Zoopho'rick Column. n.s. [In architecture.] A statuary column, or a column which bears or supports the figure of an animal. Dict.

Zoophorus
Zoo'phorus. n.s. [ζωοφορὸς.] A part between the architraves and cornice, so called on account of the ornaments carved on it, among which were the figures of animals. Dict.

Zoophyte
Zoo'phyte. n.s. [ζώοφυτον, of ζωος and φυτὸν.] Certain vegetables or substances which partake of the nature both of vegetables and animals.

Zootomist
Zoo'tomist. n.s. [of ζωοτομία.] A dissector of the bodies of brute beasts.

Zootomy
Zoo'tomy. n.s. [ζωτομία, of ζῶον and τεμνω.] Dissection of the bodies of beasts.
